The Project Gutenberg eBook of Jim Hanvey, detective
    
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Jim Hanvey, detective

Author: Octavus Roy Cohen


        
Release date: June 12, 2026 [eBook #78848]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Dodd, Mead and Company, 1923

Other information and formats: www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/78848

Credits: Tim Lindell, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JIM HANVEY, DETECTIVE ***




                              JIM HANVEY
                               DETECTIVE

                         BY OCTAVUS ROY COHEN

                    Author of "THE CRIMSON ALIBI,"
                           "MIDNIGHT," etc.

                               NEW YORK
                        DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY
                                 1923

                         COPYRIGHT, 1922, 1923
                         BY OCTAVUS ROY COHEN

                          PRINTED IN U. S. A.


                          VAIL-BALLOU COMPANY
                        BINGHAMTON AND NEW YORK

                                  To
                            CECILE O. LOPEZ




                               CONTENTS


                               FISH EYES

                               HOMESPUN SILK

                               COMMON STOCK

                               HELEN OF TROY, N. Y.

                               CAVEAT EMPTOR

                               THE KNIGHT'S GAMBIT

                               PINK BAIT




                         Jim Hanvey, Detective




                               FISH EYES


Clifford Wallace was noticeably ill-at-ease. He worked intensively yet
mechanically at his post in the Third National Bank, within the narrow
confines of a cage bearing the inscription Paying Teller Number One.
Horizontal lines of worry creased his forehead and a single lock of
white stood out with startling clarity against the deep brown of his
hair.

Beside him were piled great stacks of money divided into neat packages.
Behind his back the huge doors of the cash vault gaped, disclosing
more money. At the right of his cage were the inclosures of the three
other--the junior--paying tellers. The marbled lobby of the big bank
was a welter of discordant activity, of impatience--the clink of
silver, the soft shuffling of new bank notes, the slamming of ledgers,
the hum of banking during the rush hours.

To-day was the busiest of the month for Paying Teller Number One.
To-day came due the pay rolls of the three largest corporations in the
industrial district of which this city was the metropolis. More than
a million and a quarter dollars in cash occupied the cage with Cliff
Wallace; a million and a quarter dollars in silver and bills, only a
few of the latter in denominations of more than one hundred dollars.
It was Wallace's task to make up these pay rolls and deliver them to
the armed men who came with the checks. He was sorting the money now,
indifferent to the exasperated stare of the little man outside the
window who impatiently rattled his own modest pay-roll check for $208.

Behind the irate little man a line formed slowly--two or three other
representatives of small businesses, then a strikingly pretty young
woman in a blue coat suit, and behind her, two stalwarts from the
Garrison Coal, Iron and Steel Company. Cliff knew the proportions of
the check they carried--$278,000. Real work there, work requiring
intense concentration. It was so easy to make an error of a few hundred
dollars when one dealt casually in single amounts greater than a
quarter million. Cliff received the little man's check and counted the
money deftly, cramming it into a canvas sack. He was visibly annoyed
when the man insisted on opening the sack and counting the money for
himself. Cliff's eyes sought those of the pretty girl and a brief
glance of understanding passed between them. Both were taut of muscle
and tense of nerves; upon the face of each was an unnatural pallor.

The little man completed his count, closed his canvas sack and moved
off pompously. The next man in line presented his check and received
his money. So, too, did the next. The girl pushed her check through
the window--the pay-roll check of the wholesale hardware company
for which she worked; $728.56. With it she presented a leather
satchel. Cliff Wallace unlocked the barred window of his cage to
take the satchel. He placed it on the shelf at his right, the shelf
containing the mountains of bills. Again that look of understanding--of
apprehension--passed between them. They spoke with simulated casualness.

"Good morning, Phyllis."

"Good morning, Cliff."

That was all. Yet, save for those first glances, they avoided each
other's eyes. The oldish-young paying teller sorted out the amount of
her pay roll. And then, working discreetly, swiftly and dexterously,
he piled beside it a small stack of new bills. In that stack of bills
was a hundred thousand dollars; one thousand one-hundred-dollar bank
notes. Once he permitted his eyes to rove restlessly about the lobby.
They paused briefly on the gray-coated figure of the bank's special
officer, who lounged indifferently near the Notes and Discounts Window.
Apparently the bank detective had neither thought nor care in the
world. Reassured, yet with no diminution of his nervousness, Cliff
Wallace returned to the task in hand.

Into the girl's brown-leather satchel he put the amount of her pay-roll
check, and then he crammed into it also the one hundred thousand
dollars.

His face was ghastly pale as he faced her once more. The hand that
held the satchel trembled violently. He conscripted a smile which he
intended to be reassuring, and the smile with which she answered him
was so obviously an effort that it seemed to shriek her guilt. For a
second they remained rigid, staring into each other's eyes, then the
envoys of the Garrison Coal, Iron and Steel Company coughed impatiently
and the girl moved away. The paying teller fingered the $278,000 check
nervously, his eyes remaining focused on the blue coat suit which was
moving with horrid slowness toward the whirling doors that opened onto
the street. And finally she disappeared and Cliff Wallace breathed a
sigh of infinite relief. Thus far nothing had been noticed. He gave
his attention to the task of assorting huge stacks of bills for the
Garrison company.

Meanwhile the girl in the blue coat suit turned into the swirl of
traffic on the city's main thoroughfare. She threaded her way through
the crowd, walking with unnecessary swiftness, with the single thought
in her mind of putting as much space as possible between herself and
the Third National Bank. Her fingers were wrapped tightly about the
handle of the brown-leather satchel, her face bore a fixed rigidity of
expression, her heart was pounding beneath the plain tailored waist
she wore. It seemed incomprehensible that the transaction in Cliff
Wallace's cage had gone unnoticed. It had been so simple--so absurdly
simple.

And now she was making all haste toward the office where she worked.
Cliff had warned her that she must return promptly from the bank in
order that the inevitable investigation should disclose no suspicious
lapse of time.

She turned up a side street and thence into a gaunt, red-brick building
labeled Sanford Jones & Co. Biting her lips with a fierce effort at
self-control, she entered the building and turned immediately into the
women's washroom. Trembling fingers found the door key and turned it.
Then making certain that she was alone in the room she took from the
shelf a large piece of brown wrapping paper which she had placed there
earlier in the morning--that and a bit of twine.

She dropped to her knees, opened the satchel and took from it the one
hundred thousand dollars. She felt a vague amazement that so much money
should be of such small bulk. She arranged the bills neatly in three
stacks of equal height and wrapped them carefully in the brown paper.
Then with the package securely tied with twine she closed the satchel,
unlocked the washroom door and swung into the office. No one had
noticed her brief excursion into the washroom; that much was evident.

Straight toward the cashier's desk she went, and in his hands placed
the satchel. His eyes smiled briefly into hers.

"Got back pretty quick this morning, Miss Robinson."

She forced a smile. "Yes. Not much crowd at the bank. I did get back in
a hurry."

The bit of dialogue pleased her. The cashier had noticed specifically
that her absence from the store had been of briefer duration than
usual. He would remember that when the detectives made inquiry.

She seated herself at her typewriter. Beside her, on the battered oak
desk, she placed the innocuous-appearing brown paper package, the
package containing one hundred thousand dollars. She was horribly
nervous, but apparently no one noticed anything unusual in her manner.
The wall clock indicated the hour of 10:30. From then until noon she
must work.

It was difficult. Her thoughts were focused upon the money before her.
Once a clerk stopped by her desk to chat and his hand rested idly upon
the package of money. She felt as though she must scream. But he moved
away eventually. She breathed more easily.

At five minutes after noon she left the office for her lunch. With
her went the package of money. She made her way to the City Trust and
Savings Company, an imposing edifice of white marble nearly opposite
the Third National. She entered the building and descended the broad
stairway to the safety-deposit vaults, noticing with relief that there
was an unusually large crowd there. She extended her key to the ancient
man in charge.

"Two-thirty-five, please. Mrs. Harriet Dare."

Mrs. Dare, now dead, had been Phyllis' sister. Phyllis had access to
the box. Too, she maintained in this bank a box in her own name, so
that should official investigation progress to the point of examining
the safety-deposit box of Phyllis Robinson, nothing to excite suspicion
would be found. That was one of the strongest links in the safety chain
that Cliff Wallace had welded.

The man in charge ran through his index and handed her a card to sign.
Her hand trembled as she wrote her name: Phyllis Robinson. The old
man took her key and his, unlocked the box and left her. There were a
number of persons in the vault: One pompous gentleman ostentatiously
clipping coupons from Liberty Bonds of fifty-dollar denomination; an
old lady who had already locked her box and was struggling vainly to
assure herself that it was thoroughly locked; a fair-haired clerk from
a broker's office assuming the businesslike airs of his employer; a
half dozen others, each reassuringly absorbed in his own business.
Phyllis took her box--it was a large one--and carried it into one of
the private booths which stood just outside the vault door.

She placed the tin box and her package side by side on the mahogany
shelf. A quick survey of the place assured her that she was not
observed. She wondered vaguely why she was not. It seemed as though
someone must know. But apparently no one did. Swiftly she transferred
the hundred thousand dollars to the strong box. She was amazed to
find herself computing financial possibilities when all the while she
was frightened. It was an amount to yield seven thousand dollars a
year carefully invested. Two persons could live comfortably on seven
thousand dollars a year. And that meant every year--there'd be no
diminution of principal. Nearly one hundred and fifty dollars a week.
Every comfort and many luxuries assured. Freedom. Independence. Fear.

She returned the box to its compartment and emerged upon the street
again. With the money put safely away a load had lifted from her
shoulders. She felt a sense of enormous relief. The danger mark had
been passed, the scheme appeared to have justified itself. But now her
nerves were jangling as they had not been before. She was frightened,
not so much for what the immediate future might hold as by the
experience through which she had just passed. No longer was she keyed
up by action. Retrospection left her weak and afraid. She knew that she
couldn't do it again; marveled at the fact that she had committed this
act at all.

She ate a tiny meal at the dairy lunch which she patronized regularly.
At 12:40 she returned to the office, where she threw herself into the
grind of routine work, seeking forgetfulness and ease for her jangling
nerves. But her thoughts were not on the letters she typed; they were
at the bank with Clifford Wallace, chief paying teller.

Meanwhile Cliff's inscrutable, rather hard face gave no indication
of the seethe within him. He did his work with mechanical precision,
counting large sums of money with incredible speed, checking and
rechecking his payments, attending to his routine work with the
deftness and accuracy that had won him this post.

There was in his manner no slightest indication that he had just
engineered the theft of one hundred thousand dollars in currency. Never
friendly at best, he was perhaps this day a trifle more reserved than
usual; but even had his fellow workers noticed the fact they would have
ascribed it to the abnormal pressure of work. It was seldom that three
big pay rolls became due at one time. And the handling of such huge
sums of money is likely to cause temporary irascibility in even the
most genial of men.

The hour hand of the big clock on the marble wall crept to the figure
two. A gong sounded. Immediately work was suspended at the long rows
of windows. Then the little barred doors were dropped, the patrons
of the bank drifted out gradually, and the bedlam of a busy day was
succeeded by the drone of after-hours work--the clackety-clack of
adding machines, the rustle of checks, the slamming of books, the clink
of silver and gold.

Pencil in hand, Cliff Wallace checked over the money in his vault.
Paying Tellers Numbers Two, Three and Four made their reports first.
Then Wallace gave his attention to his own cash. The door of his
cage was open, so that the cages of the four paying tellers were
temporarily en suité. Behind Wallace's back the door of the cash vault
gaped. The vault itself was part of his cage, its contents Wallace's
responsibility. He worked swiftly and expertly. And then, a few
minutes before 4:30 o'clock, he presented himself before Robert Warren,
president of the Third National. He was nervous and ill-at-ease. In
his left hand he held a paper covered with figures. His face was
expressionless, unless one was sufficiently keen to observe the hunted,
haunted look in his cold blue eyes. Here was the crisis. He pulled up
a chair and seated himself, after having first closed the door of the
president's office.

"Mr. Warren"--his voice was steady and incisive, giving no hint of the
emotional strain under which he labored--"I have just checked over the
cash. I am precisely one hundred thousand dollars short."

The president's swivel chair creaked. The gentleman strangled on a puff
of cigar smoke. His big, spatulate hands came down on the polished
mahogany desk surface with a thump. His eyes widened.

"You--you are what?"

"My cash is one hundred thousand dollars short."

The statement appeared to have difficulty in penetrating.

"My dear Mr. Wallace--that is impossible! An exact amount?"

Cliff was more at ease. It was a scene he had rehearsed a hundred
times, and it was developing just as anticipated.

"I realize the impossibility, sir. But it is nevertheless a fact."

Robert Warren's face hardened slightly. He regarded his chief paying
teller with a critical, speculative glance. Wallace returned look for
look. The president spoke:

"Please explain yourself, Mr. Wallace. Am I listening to a statement or
a confession?"

"A statement, sir."

"H'm!" Warren was himself again. Only superficially was the man
genial. He had cultivated geniality as a business asset. Basically he
was utterly emotionless. He realized that the thing to which he gave
ear was of vital import, and as that realization hammered home, his
demeanor became intransigently frigid. "H'm! A statement?"

"Yes, sir."

"Your cash is--er--an even one hundred thousand dollars short?"

"Yes, sir."

"How does that happen?"

"I'm trying to find out myself."

"You are quite sure?"

"Certainly, sir. I would not have come to you had I not been sure."

Silence. Again that clash of eyes. "This puts you in an exceedingly
awkward position, Mr. Wallace. Personally."

"I understand that, sir."

"One hundred thousand dollars is a great deal of money."

"Yes, sir."

"The responsibility is absolutely and exclusively yours."

"I realize that."

"Its loss cannot but be due to carelessness on your part."

"That is probably true."

"Probably?"

"Yes, sir. I am not certain about any phase of this--this--unfortunate
situation."

Warren lighted another cigar. "Of course the bank will not lose. You
are bonded. I must notify the bonding company immediately."

"Of course."

The younger man's poise seemed to get on the nerves of the bank
president. For once in his life he had come into contact with a man
more unemotional than himself. His fist pounded the desk suddenly.

"Damn it! Wallace, what does it all mean?"

"That that amount of money has disappeared, sir."

"One hundred thousand even?"

"To the dollar."

"When did you notice the loss?"

"Just a few minutes ago, sir--when I checked over the cash."

"You rechecked?"

"Twice."

"Have you been alone in your cage all day?"

"I believe so, sir."

"You only believe?"

"I can't make a too positive statement. The cages of the other paying
tellers open into mine. Almost every day the door between my cage and
theirs is open for a little while. It is possible that that was the
case at certain times to-day."

"You are not positive?"

"No, sir."

"But you believe that the door was open--in the regular course of the
day's work?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you believe that one of your assistants took that money?"

Wallace's face twitched, ever so slightly. "No, sir."

"No?"

"Even if my door had been open, Mr. Warren, I don't believe they would
have had a chance to take that much money."

"But--but, Wallace--there are only four men in this bank who could have
taken it--provided it was taken; yourself and your three assistant
paying tellers."

"I realize that."

"And you say that you don't believe they could?"

"Yes, sir."

"H'm! Do you realize the inevitable conclusion?"

"That if they didn't, I did?"

"Exactly."

"Yes, sir, I realize that."

"Yet you say that you did not."

"Of course."

Robert Warren showed a flash of irritation. "You seem damned
unexcited."

"I don't believe this is any time for me to become excited, sir."

Robert Warren rose. "Come with me, young man. We'll lock the doors
of the bank and check every cent of cash we have. There must be some
mistake."

"I sincerely hope so, sir."

A careful check-up showed plainly that there was no mistake. One
hundred thousand dollars had disappeared from the bank during the
course of the day's business. It was gone. The three assistant paying
tellers were nervous and excited. The cashier, a nervous, wiry little
man, rushed around the bank like a chicken suddenly bereft of its head.
The bank's private detective, a portly, unimaginative individual,
strutted around the empty lobby trying to look important and succeeding
not at all. He believed it incumbent upon him to detect something or
somebody, felt that the weight of the world suddenly had descended upon
his shoulders. But his brain worked in a single unfortunate channel.
His attempts at deduction led invariably into the _cul-de-sac_ of "It
just couldn't happen."

That was the reaction expressed by every bank employe who knew what
had occurred. The thing was impossible. The paying tellers, who had
worked in team preparing for the rush of the day, were all reasonably
certain that the cash had been correct at the beginning of the day--as
certain as they were that it was not now correct. Through it all
Clifford Wallace worked with them. Tiny lines of worry corrugated his
forehead. And when, at seven o'clock, it became evident that the money
was positively gone and had disappeared probably during the course of
the day's business, the president, the cashier and Clifford Wallace
retired to Warren's office. The president and cashier were smoking.
Cliff declined their proffered cigar.

"I never smoke, you know."

"The point now is," spoke Warren, checking off that particular point on
his thumb, "that the money has disappeared and we must do something.
The question is, what?" He turned his gaze upon Wallace. Cliff met the
stare steadily and answered in a matter-of-fact voice:

"The obvious thing is to place me under arrest, Mr. Warren."

"Obvious, of course."

"But Mr. Warren"--it was the nervous little cashier--"you don't believe
Cliff stole that money, do you?"

"Certainly not, Mr. Jenkins. Of course I don't. And equally of course I
am not going to have Mr. Wallace placed under arrest."

A flicker of triumph crossed Clifford Wallace's face, to be followed
instantly by his habitual stoniness of expression.

"I am perfectly willing, Mr. Warren----"

"It isn't a case of willingness, Wallace. If I thought for a moment
you were guilty--or even could be guilty--I wouldn't hesitate. Not
if you were my brother. But the thing is impossible. You've been
negligent--probably; I'm not even sure of that. I understand banks
well enough to know that a certain laxity of routine is naturally and
excusably developed. It is my personal opinion that the money did not
disappear from the bank. It either never was here or it is still here."

"Yes, sir." Cliff was calmly attentive.

"I am going to search every employe as he or she leaves the bank. That
will insure its remaining here to-night. By to-morrow morning the
bonding-company detectives and the representatives of the Bankers'
Protective Association will be here. Whatever action they care to
take, Wallace, will be strictly up to them. Personally, I wish to
take occasion to assure you of my confidence in your integrity and to
express the belief that this is an explainable mistake of some sort,
which will be set right to-morrow."

"And you are not even going to keep me under surveillance to-night?"

"No."

"Pardon me, sir, but I believe you are making a mistake. You will be
criticized----"

"They can criticize and be damned to them."

Wallace returned to his cage, where he busied himself arranging the
shelves for the following morning. Then quite as usual he closed
his vault doors, set the time lock, visited the washroom, and left
the building after undergoing a thorough search. Once outside, his
shoulders went back unconsciously. He knew that he had won. The very
simplicity of his crime had caused it to be crowned with success.

But he did not allow his elation to strangle caution. Every move in the
game had been thought out meticulously in advance. He did not deviate a
hair's breath from his regular evening routine. He went to a cafeteria
and ate a hearty meal, although the food almost choked him. At the desk
he telephoned Phyllis Robinson.

"May I come to see you this evening, Phyllis?" He did that four or five
evenings a week; they were secretly engaged.

"Yes."

There was a distinct nuance of tremulous inquiry in her voice. It
annoyed Clifford. They had threshed out every detail of this sort. She
must keep a stiff upper lip, had promised not to betray any untoward
interest in his comings and goings immediately following the robbery.
But that was just like a woman, making plain in the tone of her voice
the vast relief she felt at knowing that he was free. Wallace didn't
like that. It was an indication of weakness, and weakness had no place
in his elaborate scheme. Besides, he knew well that Robert Warren was
no fool, realized that for all Warren's protestations of belief in
his integrity, the bank president already had a detective shadowing
him. He had anticipated that and a good deal more. He had expected
to spend this night in jail, and perhaps several others. Certainly
under observation. This freedom caused elation, but brought about no
lessening of caution.

At 7:45 he presented himself at the garage where he kept his modest
little roadster, filled the tank with gas and drove down the street.
This was a nightly ritual. Straight to the home of Phyllis Robinson
he went; it was a rambling two-story structure set well back of a
high-terraced front yard, its wide veranda blanketed cozily with
honeysuckle--a modest place, one which had seen decidedly better days.
Phyllis, an orphan, lived there with an aunt. The place was a boarding
house. All very discreet and proper.

She greeted him in the hallway. He was irritated by the patent effort
of her casualness. He directed their conversation, they chatted about
innocuous nothings until they were safely out of the house and in his
little car, headed into the country. This, too, was a not uncommon
procedure. Cliff was well satisfied with himself. The most suspicious
watcher could have found no food for speculation this night. His
actions had been the normal actions of an innocent man. He was acting
just as he would have acted had he been innocent of the theft of one
hundred thousand dollars.

They mounted a gentle acclivity. The broad smooth highway dipped from
the crest through a small woods. Overhead the full moon shone benignly
over the valley, behind them the city, ringed about by furnaces and
steel mills, gems of fire in the setting of silvered night. A red glow
in the sky. The man at the steering wheel, calm and self-possessed,
eyes focused on the ribbon of road ahead, thoughts busy with the
epochal events of the day. Nor did he mention the subject uppermost in
his mind until the girl spoke, spoke with a quaver in her voice as her
hand closed tremulously about his.

"You--you're free, Cliff?"

"Obviously." The man was a poser; this was too perfect an opportunity
to miss. He wished the girl at his side to be impressed with his own
granite imperviousness to emotion. Phyllis shook her head; she loved
him despite the fact that she knew his weakness.

"They don't suspect you?"

"Certainly not. They couldn't. I went in to the old man and told him
the money was gone. I didn't protect myself a bit. Suggested that he
had better lock me up. And of course he didn't." He smiled grimly,
pridefully. "The only danger point in the whole scheme has been passed,
Phyllis. We're safe."

"And I'm frightened."

"Of course. That's natural."

"Aren't you?"

"Not at all." He stopped the car as if to light a cigarette. "You put
the money in the vault at the City Trust?"

"Yes."

"When?"

"Immediately after I left the office for lunch."

"You went straight from the Third National to your office?"

"Yes. And the cashier commented on how quickly I got back."

"Fine! Great! Sooner or later they're bound to connect us in this
matter, and when they do they'll investigate your actions. It'll disarm
them to learn that you got back to the office in record time; that you
couldn't possibly have gone anywhere between the bank and your place of
business. And now about the vault--you didn't attract any particular
attention there, did you?"

"No-o. I'm sure I didn't. There was a crowd there, and I am sure the
old man didn't notice me at all. I put the money in Harriet's box, not
mine."

He patted her hand reassuringly. "You were a trump, dear. And you're
not sorry?"

"No-o--and yes. I know that it is wrong, yet--oh, well, we need the
money. It means so much more to us than it ever could to that bank. If
we're only not caught."

"We won't be." His narrow, rather hard face was set. He argued as
though to reassure himself. "The weakness in anything of this sort
is preliminary planning. The average man who sets out to steal one
hundred thousand dollars"--the girl winced--"makes plans so enormously
elaborate that he cuts his own throat, minimizes his chances of getting
away with it. For every detail that such a man plants he sows a
possibility of detection. He isn't content with the easy, the safe, the
normal. In striving for perfection, for absolute safety, he lays traps
for himself. Remember this, Phyllis: a detective can make a thousand
mistakes and, by doing one single thing correctly, land his man. The
criminal cannot afford a single mistake. Understand?"

"Yes." And then the feminine side of the girl flooded to the surface.
"Cliff dear, you're so--so hard!"

That pleased him. He wanted to be hard, cultivated a gelid philosophy.

"Sentiment serves no man well, Phyllis. My hardness has made possible
financial ease for us--and consequent contentment. I have no
conscience. Neither has the average man. Conscience is the fear of
being caught. We are all inherently immoral. It was not wrong for the
primitive man to steal. He took what he could get away with. Right
and wrong are products of legislation, of artificial ethical culture.
They are not part of us; we are inoculated with them. They are utterly
foreign to us. In taking this money I have committed no natural crime.
By statute only am I a criminal. I am not ashamed of what I have done.
I would be ashamed of detection."

Silence fell between them. The girl shivered as though with a chill.

"You are very convincing, dear. But I'm afraid that I'm terribly a
victim to the morality of education. Of course you've convinced my
intellect. But--since this afternoon--I'm afraid you can never convince
my conscience."

He flashed her a sudden apprehensive glance. "You're not getting cold
feet?"

"No." She shook her head sadly. "It's too late for that."

"But you're afraid?"

"Yes. I'm afraid."

"Then you're silly. We're safe now. The minute you walked through those
revolving doors with that hundred thousand in your bag I knew that we
were safe. The scheme is successful because of its very simplicity.
We are to go ahead in our normal ways. There is to be no variation
whatsoever in our way of living. In a year we will marry. A year from
then I will get a position somewhere else. And then--and not until
then--will we begin to make use of the money which we got to-day. We're
safe."

"From the law--yes. But not from ourselves."

"Harping on conscience again?"

"Yes."

"Pff! I have no conscience, no fear of the intangible."

She sighed. "I must agree with you, dear. I've gone too far not to. But
I wonder--whether it's worth the price."

He laughed harshly and the car leaped ahead as his finger caressed the
gas lever.

"It's fortunate, Phyllis, that I'm practical. The thing that counts in
this world is what you have--not how you got it."

They returned to the girl's boarding house at eleven o'clock, stood
chatting for a while on the front porch. Cliff wondered whether the man
who must be shadowing him was witness to the tableau. He knew that the
man must have been bewildered and apprehensive when they went off for a
ride together--and pleased by their return. He fancied he could discern
the person lolling in the shadows of the big oak across the street. He
swung down the steps, whistling jauntily.

Phyllis slept not at all that night. Cliff, serene and untroubled,
slumbered heavily. For two years he had planned this thing, had
surveyed it from every angle. He had made an intensive personal study
of the men with whom he would have to deal: Of Robert Warren, the
president; of Garet Jenkins, the cashier; of each member of the board
of directors. He had studied their mental processes, had deliberately
built up their confidence in him and his integrity. He had known in
advance that Warren would do just about as he had done and that his
opinion would sway the board of directors. He knew that the matter
would be hushed up and that the investigation would be conducted with
the most rigid secrecy. He knew that detectives would appear the
following morning, would remain there for some time--and that they
would find nothing. He knew that eventually the conclusion would be
reached that there had been, in fact, no robbery at all, but that the
hundred thousand dollars had never reached the bank vaults.

He would be watched carefully for one month, two, three. Then the
matter would be filed away as an unsolved mystery. Above everything,
the bank was not desirous of a scandal. In the absence of sufficient
evidence to convict they'd permit him his freedom. And the perfect
normalcy of his life would convince them speedily that he was free from
guilt.

He reached the bank the following morning at precisely his regular
time, not a minute early or a minute late. He held a brief conference
with the three assistant paying tellers and apportioned to each his
quota of cash from the vault, which was a part of his individual cage.
Then quite phlegmatically he answered a summons to the office of the
president. And as he entered the door he recognized in the three
strangers who faced him the detectives.

Cliff was somewhat amused. He knew that the glances they bestowed upon
him were surcharged with deep and dark suspicion. Money had disappeared
from the cage of the chief paying teller; ergo, the chief paying teller
had stolen it. They'd start out on that theory--and butt their heads
against a stone wall. He realized that Robert Warren was talking, that
he was being introduced.

"The detectives; this is Mr. Peter Jamieson, representing the Bonding
company. And Mr. Carl Burton, of the Bankers' Protective Association."
He hesitated a moment as he turned toward the third stranger. Then:
"This other gentleman is also here to represent the Bankers' Protective
Association. Mr. Wallace, Mr. Hanvey--Mr. James Hanvey."

Cliff started visibly. Jim Hanvey! He'd heard of the man--a detective
with an enviable reputation. But he had envisioned Jim Hanvey as a
person tall and sinewy, and with a saturnine face and deep-set flashing
eyes. This man----

The hand which the great detective extended to him was limp and clammy,
the man himself utterly negative. He was a large man, true; but his
shoulders were rounded and from them the coat of his cheap ready-made
tweed suit hung like a smoking jacket. Above a thick red neck rose
the head--huge, fat, shapeless. Three floppy chins, an apoplectic
expression, a wide, loose-lipped mouth. And eyes----

Those eyes fascinated Wallace, not because they were marvelous eyes
but because he could not reconcile himself to the fact that they were
capable of seeing anything. They were large eyes, and round like a
baby's. In color they were a passive gray--fishlike. They rested on
Wallace's as their hands met, and then the lids closed slowly over them
like a film, rising just as deliberately. It was more an ocular yawn
than a blinking of eyes. Cliff felt within him a contempt for the man,
instant and instinctive, then pulled himself together with a jerk. He
knew that would never do. Jim Hanvey bore an international reputation,
such a one as could not be attained through inefficiency.

Jamieson was nearer Cliff's conception of an efficient detective.
Medium build, dapper, dynamic, with blazing eyes and a competent
manner. He liked Jamieson, knew that he would know how to cope with
him. Jamieson was a practical detective, and Jamieson was there in
the rôle of a friend. It was most decidedly to the interest of the
bonding company to establish his innocence. Burton, too, radiated
efficiency. He was tall and broad and had deep-set brown eyes which
looked out keenly from under heavy lashes. He was there to convict, but
Cliff did not fear him. Burton, like Jamieson, was too normal a man to
inspire apprehension. But Hanvey, Hanvey of the slow-blinking, fishy
eyes--Hanvey was a disturbing quantity. Cliff didn't like Hanvey.

Hanvey was speaking. Cliff noted that the others deferred to the
ponderous, uninspired-looking individual.

"H'm! You're the paying teller, Mr. Wallace?"

"Yes, sir."

"Kind of funny--the hundred thousand gettin' lost thataway, wasn't it?"

Cliff was annoyed. The man wasn't even grammatical.

"Rather peculiar--yes."

"Ain't got any idea how it happened, have you?"

"No."

"No chance of any one sort of slippin' an arm through the cage window
and grabbin' it, huh?"

Bah! the man was an idiot.

"Hardly that."

"Kinder makes us believe that it must have been done by somebody inside
the cage. Ain't that so?"

"That is the obvious conclusion."

"Well, now--so it is. So it is." Hanvey produced a golden toothpick,
which he regarded fondly. "Awful funny thing how money gits to go
thisaway. Awful funny. Ain't it, Jamieson?"

"Yes--yes indeed." Cliff glanced curiously at the competent
Jamieson. He fancied that Jamieson would appear annoyed by Hanvey's
cumbersomeness. But instead he saw the two other detectives hanging
worshipfully upon Hanvey's words.

Peculiar--it was impossible that Hanvey possessed keen intelligence.
And yet----

Hanvey nodded heavily. "That's all, Mr. Wallace. I reckon that's about
all I need from you."

All? It was nothing--less than nothing. One or two absurd, meaningless
questions; a ridiculous voicing of the thought that some one might have
stolen a hundred thousand dollars in currency from under his very eyes.
And Jim Hanvey was reputed to be a great detective.

Cliff Wallace was bothered. The very somnolent heaviness of Jim Hanvey
begot apprehension. He had no idea how to cope with it. The man was too
utterly guileless, too awkward of manner. His ponderous indifference
must cloak a keen, perceptive brain. Jamieson and Burton--well, Cliff
knew just what they were thinking. He'd always know what they were
thinking. But Hanvey--never. He didn't even know that Hanvey was
thinking. He was an element which the paying teller had not foreseen.
Frank suspicion was easy to combat. Through his head there flashed the
shibboleth of the Bankers' Protective Association: "We get a man if
it takes a lifetime--even though he has stolen only a dollar. It's the
principle of the thing."

He shook off the thought of Jim Hanvey, but throughout the day watched
the ponderous, big-jowled man lumber about the lobby and through
the cages, those great fishy eyes blinking with a deliberation
which reminded him of a man making physical effort to remain awake.
Occasionally Cliff looked up to find the glassy eyes staring at him
through the bars of his cage, the detective's unpressed tweed suit
against the marble shelf. His eyes would flash into those of the
detective, then would come that interminably slow blinking, and Hanvey
would move away apologetically. Once Wallace shivered.

That was the beginning. Hanvey during the days that followed did
absolutely nothing. Jamieson and Burton, on the other hand, worked
busily and thoroughly. They pored over the list of customers for whom
checks had been cashed on the day of the money's disappearance. And
finally they came to the pay-roll check of Sanford Jones & Co. They
called Cliff into conference with them, Burton doing the questioning.

"Who presented the Jones company check, Mr. Wallace?"

Cliff steeled himself to impassivity. "Miss Phyllis Robinson."

"You are acquainted with her?"

"Yes. We happen to be secretly engaged."

"Ah-h!" Cliff saw a meaningful look pass between the two detectives.
"Your fiancée?"

"Yes."

"Did you personally cash her check that day?"

"Yes."

"You are positive about that?"

"Yes. I cash all of the pay-roll checks; and besides, I remember
talking to her while she was at the window."

The detectives nodded at each other and Cliff was dismissed.
Immediately Jamieson and Burton checked up the movements of Phyllis
Robinson on that particular day. They learned that she had cashed the
company's pay-roll check as usual and that she had been absent from
the office only a short time. Yes, the puzzled cashier was positive of
that--he remembered noticing particularly that she'd hardly left the
office before she was back with the money. In answer to their query as
to whether she had time to stop somewhere en route to the office from
the bank, the little man indignantly protested that he recalled every
detail of the morning and that she couldn't possibly have done so. "I
never knew her to get back so quick before, and she never was one to
loiter."

So much for that. The girl had undoubtedly gone straight from the
bank to her office. The Jones cashier insisted that she delivered the
satchel to him personally. Jamieson and Burton then visited the banks
of the city and its suburbs. The Third National was the largest in the
district and they went meticulously down the line in the order of
importance. At the City Trust they were informed that Phyllis Robinson
rented a safety-deposit box. An inspection of her card disclosed the
fact that she had not visited the box in two months. Nor had she a box
at any other bank. Neither had Cliff Wallace.

News of the investigation, received from the puzzled cashier, via the
frightened Phyllis, elated Cliff. He was delighted to know that the
two detectives were at work, and supremely confident that they could
discover nothing.

But Hanvey did nothing. All day long he lounged about the lobby
or sat in one of the cages with his feet propped upon a shelf,
surrounding himself with a haze of rancid cigar smoke. And always
those blank, stupid eyes were turned upon the cage of the chief paying
teller--blinking, blinking.

Wallace did not vary a hair's breadth from the established routine of
his daily life. He breakfasted at his usual place at the usual hour,
snatched a lunch as he had always been in the habit of doing, dined at
his favorite cafeteria, called upon Phyllis Robinson in the evenings
and either walked with her or took her riding in his little car.

On Thursday he drew his monthly pay check--two hundred and fifty
dollars. One hundred dollars of it he immediately deposited to his own
credit in a savings account. He had done this for years.

On Friday he received a shock. It was a light pay-roll day--not more
than a quarter million dollars had been set aside for the pay rolls.
In the line was Phyllis, satchel in hand. He greeted her as usual,
counted the packages of bills and rolls of silver. And then, as he
unlocked the little window of his cage to return to her the satchel, he
visioned the ponderous figure of Jim Hanvey lolling indifferently over
the shelf; round idiotic eyes fixed unseeingly upon him. Fear flashed
into Cliff's heart and the color receded from his cheeks. What was the
significance of that? Was it possible----With an almost hysterical
gesture he slammed shut the window. Hanvey's eyes blinked once, slowly;
a second time, more slowly. Then he moved heavily away, playing with
his gold toothpick.

That night as Cliff was driving with Phyllis in the country--"That was
Hanvey standing by the window to-day when I cashed your pay-roll check."

The girl shuddered. "Ugh! He's horrid. Like a jellyfish."

"I wonder why he did that? He's never done it before."

"Did what?"

"Hung over the counter while I was cashing your pay-roll check. I
wonder if he suspects----"

"That man! He looks like an imbecile."

"Looks like, yes. But he is supposed to be a great detective."

"It's impossible."

"He's getting on my nerves, Phyllis. I can't help but believe that he
suspects something. At times I feel a contempt for his obtuseness.
Then I know that I'm wrong. He couldn't be what he is and be the
fool he looks. And he doesn't do anything. He's never questioned me.
He's never questioned any one. He just sits there and watches and
watches--like--like a Buddha."

Nor did the weeks which followed alter the situation. Jamieson reported
to the bank officials that in his opinion there had been no robbery.
Burton concurred. They had arrived at the definite conclusion that the
money had never reached the bank. In answer to Cliff's statement that
it had, they admitted that Cliff believed so--but was in error. Cliff
refused to be convinced, and thus established more firmly than ever in
their minds the fact that he was innocent of complicity in the crime.
It was the theory of Jamieson and Burton that in securing the unusually
large amount of cash from the District Federal Reserve Bank to meet
the heavy pay rolls of that particular day, a miscount had been made
at the sending source and the checking up at the Third National had
been faulty. True, the accounts of the Federal Reserve Bank showed no
surplus of one hundred thousand dollars, but both Jamieson and Burton
were optimistic that it would eventually come to light.

Cliff Wallace knew that he had been successful. No hint of suspicion
had fallen upon him. The worst that had been said against him was that
he had been careless in counting the money as it came into his vaults.
He was sorrowful about that--ostentatiously so, just as he would
normally have exhibited grief at any suggestion of inefficiency. The
bank officials did not blame him. Most of them had climbed the ladder
slowly and they were familiar with the nagging routine of the paying
teller's cage, the inevitable liability to error. Undoubtedly, they
thought, the money would appear eventually. It was absurd to doubt
Clifford Wallace. Two detectives had shadowed him meticulously. The
orderly existence of the chief paying teller was unaltered. He went his
way serenely.

To Wallace it seemed more than worth the trouble. Lying in the vaults
of the City Trust was one hundred thousand dollars in cash, an amount
sufficient to yield seven thousand income invested with moderate
acumen. That meant leisure and ease for himself and Phyllis through
life. He did not want anything more. He knew that he would never again
be tempted to crime; not that he was morally opposed to it, but because
it wasn't worth the danger.

One hundred thousand dollars was adequate to their needs. He had
planned this thing for two years. Now it had been worked successfully.

If it only wasn't for Jim Hanvey, those wide-staring eyes. He couldn't
get away from those eyes, from the insolent indolence of the man, his
apparent indifference to the mystery he was supposed to be solving.
All day he lounged around the bank; ignorant, bunglesome, awkward,
inactive. He inspected no books, asked no questions, exhibited no
suspicion of Cliff Wallace. Yet Cliff felt those inhuman eyes focused
upon him at all times. And that incident of Hanvey's presence at the
cage when he cashed Phyllis' pay-roll check--that was fraught with deep
significance.

"He suspects me," proclaimed the chief paying teller to his accomplice.
"He knows that I did it and is just trying to find out how."

She held his hand between both of hers. "I'm afraid, Cliff. Horribly
afraid."

"If he'd only say something! I wish he'd arrest me."

"Cliff!"

"I mean it. If he'd arrest me they'd prosecute, and they couldn't
possibly convict. They haven't a thing on me. I'd be acquitted in jig
time. Then he could go to the devil--Hanvey and those fish eyes of his.
I'd be safe then--even if they found out later that I had done it."

"You mean that you couldn't be tried twice for the same offense?"

"That's it."

"Then why not induce them to--to prosecute?"

He shook his head. "I can't. I've tried it, but old Warren and Garet
Jenkins are convinced that I'm innocent. Jamieson and Burton both
believe the money never got to the bank. And Hanvey just sits around
like a hoot owl at noon and does nothing. It's Hanvey I'm afraid of. He
knows! The only thing he doesn't know is how!"

Two more weeks passed. Wallace's hope that Hanvey would depart proved
ill-founded. The big, awkward man was there at eight o'clock every
morning, and there he remained until the books were closed at night.
He spoke to nobody save in the most casual way. Every other employe of
the bank came to take him for granted. They were interested in him at
first, but later accepted him as they accepted the marble pillars which
stubbed the lobby. He was big and lumbering and uncouth, and gradually
they forgot his reputation as a bank detective.

But Clifford Wallace did not forget. In his eyes there had been born
a hunted, haunted look. Hanvey's flabby, rather coarse face had a
hypnotic effect upon him. He found himself wondering what obliquitous
course this man was pursuing, what method there might be in his madness
of inactivity. He felt like an ill man who finds himself daily in the
room with a coffin. Hanvey's stolid demeanor generated an association
of ideas that was irresistibly horrible.

It was obvious that Hanvey suspected something, some one; equally plain
that he did not suspect any one else in that bank. It must be, then,
that he did suspect Cliff. And then he commenced visiting Cliff's cage.

He did it only a few times. His manner was friendly, almost apologetic.
But he had a mean insinuating way of appearing at the cage door and
rattling the knob. Cliff would whirl and find those dull inhuman eyes
blinking slowly at him.

"Can I come in, Mr. Wallace?" And then once inside the cage: "Jest
wanted to pass the time of day with you."

Invariably, then, the same formula. A browsing around the tiny cage.
A peeping into the money-stocked vault of the paying teller. "Gosh!
That's a heap of money."

"Yes." Cliff found himself on edge when Hanvey was in his cage.

"Never knew there was that much money in the world."

Damn the man! Always obvious in his speech.

"Didn't you?"

"Nope. Sure didn't."

Hanvey never mentioned the robbery. His indifference must be studied;
all part of a net-spreading process. Cliff was frightened. He recalled
the adage that a detective can err a thousand times and yet win; the
criminal cannot afford to slip once. He regulated his daily life
scrupulously. At the end of another month he again deposited his
regular amount of savings. He saw to it that Phyllis did the same. But
the strain was telling on him. His appetite had gone, dark circles
appeared under his eyes. He wished daily that he'd be summoned into
Warren's office to face the thing out with Jim Hanvey. He knew they
couldn't convict, that they didn't have a thing against him. Even the
box in which reposed their hundred thousand dollars stood in the name
of Mrs. Harriet Dare, Phyllis' dead sister. Before her death Phyllis
had been authorized in writing to be permitted to the box. Cliff had
taken care that the box remained in the name of the estimable and
defunct lady.

He became moody and depressed, obsessed with speculation as to what was
happening behind the bovinely expressionless face of the detective. The
man's countenance was blank, but Cliff was no fool--he knew that it
masked an alert mind. True, he'd seen no indication of that alertness,
but he knew that it must be so. And Hanvey's inactivity was telltale.
Hanvey knew that he had done it, and was waiting with oxlike patience
to discover how.

Sooner or later he'd learn. How, Cliff didn't know. But no scheme is
so perfect that it can stand the test of unflagging and unceasing
surveillance. And when he did learn--Cliff shuddered. He knew full well
what they did to crooked bank employees. Robert Warren would be hard in
such a situation--very hard, merciless.

Then came another big pay-roll day, and Phyllis' weekly visit with the
modest check from her firm. This time Hanvey fell into line behind
her. Cliff saw him coming, and his face blanched. Phyllis noticing his
pallor turned and stared into the expressionless countenance of the big
unkempt detective. The color receded from her cheeks, too, and her hand
trembled visibly as she shoved her satchel through the little window of
Cliff's cage.

His fingers were trembling as he counted the money. He chatted with
Phyllis, the effort being visible and unnatural.

The girl moved away and Hanvey looked after her trim blue-suited
figure. Then he turned his froglike eyes back to Cliff Wallace and
blinked in that maddening way of his.

"Durned pretty girl."

"Yes." He was short, nerves ajangle.

"Friend of yours?"

"Yes."

"Awful pretty girl."

Hanvey moved away. Cliff staring after his waddling figure restrained
with difficulty an impulse to scream. And when he left the bank that
day he did something he had seldom done before in his life--he took a
drink of whisky. Then he went to see Phyllis.

He was but a nervous shell of himself when he took her riding that
night. He was a victim to nerves. Insomnia had gripped him--insomnia
interrupted by a succession of nightmares in which he was hounded by a
pair of glassy eyes which blinked slowly, interminably.

"It's all off, Phyllis."

"What do you mean?"

"Hanvey knows I did it. Sooner or later he'll figure out how."

"I thought--to-day--when he hung over the counter----"

"I'm afraid he's about worked it out. We're near the ragged edge."

She commenced to cry. "Cliff----"

"Don't weep. It isn't going to do us a bit of good. The man is driving
me crazy. I tell you there's only one thing to do."

"And that is----"

"Confess."

"Oh-h-h!"

He laughed bitterly. "Don't worry. They'll never know you had anything
to do with it. You get the money out in the morning. Bring it to me
just as it stands--wrapped in brown paper. I'll carry it to old man
Warren. I'll offer to solve the mystery and see that the money is
returned in exchange for a promise of immunity."

"Will he keep his promise?"

"Absolutely. He's that sort. He'd not prosecute anyway. It would injure
the bank's reputation. A bank always prefers to hush up this sort
of thing. They prosecute only when it's been very flagrant or when
they have to secure a conviction so that the bonding company will be
responsible for their loss. So, to-morrow----"

She rested her head briefly against his shoulder. "You're right, Cliff.
And I'll be glad when it's all over. So very, very glad. I've been
afraid, dear."

She delivered the money to him at eleven o'clock the following morning.
It was Saturday; the bank closed at twelve. He saw the eyes of Jim
Hanvey blinking accusingly at him through the morning, and found
himself trembling. Suppose Hanvey should accuse him at this moment,
when he was on the verge of confession?

Noon. The great doors of the bank were closed. Cliff locked his cage,
tucked the brown paper package under his arm and closeted himself
with the president. During the walk across the lobby he had felt the
horrible knowing eyes of the detective fastened upon him, leechlike.

The scene with Robert Warren developed just as he had anticipated. The
president readily promised immunity, the cash was produced and counted.
Warren was shocked and genuinely grieved. He was considerate enough to
refrain from questioning as to the identity of the accomplice, although
Cliff felt that the man knew.

Of course, he said, Cliff could consider himself discharged. The matter
would never become known; the bank sought no such notoriety. Mr.
Warren trusted that this would be a lesson to Cliff; he was sure that
conscience had wrung this confession from the young man. Cliff acted
his part adequately.

But all the time his heart was singing. A load had been removed. His
fear of Jim Hanvey had turned into a deep, passionate, personal hatred.
He felt that he'd like to fasten his fingers in that fat, flabby throat.

He swung out of the president's office. The loss of the hundred
thousand dollars meant little as against the relief he experienced in
the freedom from fear of those mesmeric, expressionless eyes. As he
stepped into the lobby he felt them fastened upon him.

Cliff couldn't resist the impulse. Pent-up emotion demanded expression
in words. Cliff knew that he must tell this heavy-set, slow-moving man
that he had been outwitted. He strode across the lobby and pulled up
short before the detective.

"Well, Hanvey, you're too late."

The eyelids dropped slowly, then opened even more slowly. "Huh?"

"I beat you to it." Cliff was gripped by a moderate hysteria. "I've
fixed everything--for myself. You don't get a bit of glory. And I
wanted the satisfaction of telling you that I've known from the first
you suspected me."

Jim Hanvey's fishy eyes opened wide, then narrowed. His fat fingers
fumbled awkwardly with the glittering gold toothpick. His demeanor was
one of bewilderment and utter lack of comprehension.

"What you talkin' about, son? Suspected you of what?"

Cliff felt suddenly cold. There was a disquieting ring of truth in
the drawling voice. Was it possible that this hulk of a man had not
suspected him, that the confession had been unnecessary? His trembling
hands sought the pudgy shoulders of the detective.

"You've been watching me and my cage, haven't you?"

"Sure."

"Well--why?"

The big man's manner was genial, friendly. His dull round eyes blinked
and his voice dropped discreetly. "Jest between us, son, I reckon there
ain't no harm in me explainin'. 'Bout three years ago Spade Gormon,
cleverest forger in the country, pulled an awful neat job in Des
Moines. Then he dropped outa sight. We ain't heard nothin' of him till
Headquarters got the tip he was operatin' in this district. We knew
good and well if he was he'd sooner or later try to slip a bum check
over on this bank, it bein' the biggest one hereabouts. So as I know
Spade pretty well an' personal, they sent me down here to loaf around
until he showed up."

Cliff Wallace's hands dropped limply to his sides. It was hard to
understand. "Then you weren't even working on my case?"

"No, I wasn't workin' on your case. An' if you went an' confessed
anything, you probably done yourself an awful dirty trick. Far as I'm
concerned, son, I ain't even been interested in your case since I got
an inside tip it had been dropped."




                             HOMESPUN SILK


Jim Hanvey was not at all the type of man one envisions when the word
"detective" is mentioned. He was immoderately large and shapeless
and his cheap ready-made clothes flapped grotesquely about the
ungainly figure. Above a collar of inconsequential height but amazing
circumference arose a huge head which contained a face of incarnadined
complexion, scant and unkempt hair, pendulous jowls and twin chins. His
lips were large and loose, ears flappy, and his eyes----

The eyes were the outstanding feature of Jim Hanvey's topography.
They were strikingly inexpressive; great sleepy orbs of fishy hue,
impressing one with the idea of sightlessness. It seemed impossible
that those eyes were capable of vision. They sat glassily in the
red pudgy face beneath a hedge of overdeveloped brows. And Jim's
blinking--as a matter of fact, he didn't blink; he yawned with his
eyelids. An interminably slow process of drooping the lids over
the dull-gray eyes, of holding them shut for a moment, and then of
uncurtaining them with even more maddening deliberation.

Jim emerged heavily from the dilapidated taxicab which screeched to a
halt before the ornate portals of the Hanover Apartments. He turned
hesitantly toward the taxidriver, who made no effort to conceal the
vastness of his contempt. "How much I owe you, son?"

The meter was consulted--a mere matter of form. "Dollar forty."

Jim Hanvey whistled in protest as he counted out one wrinkled dollar
bill, a quarter, a dime and a nickel. Then as he waddled into the
Hanover he shook his head slowly. "Dollar forty! Holy smokes! An' I
thought I knew every professional crook in America."

He walked uncertainly through the cheaply magnificent lobby. The ebony
lad at the switchboard eyed him insolently. Jim paused, toying with a
gold toothpick which hung suspended from a watchchain of hawserlike
proportions.

"Mr. Arthur Sherwood in?"

"Yeh. Who wants to see him?"

Hanvey's bushy eyebrows arched in surprise. "Why, me, of course."

"Who you is?"

"Hanvey is my name. Mr. James Hanvey."

"Huh!" The boy plugged in viciously, and then, into the transmitter:
"That you, Mistuh Sherwood?... There's a guy down here wants to see
you.... Says his name is James Hanvey.... Yeh! Hanvey.... All right,
suh." He turned back and vouchsafed his information grudgingly. "Mistuh
Sherwood says come right up. Apahtment Fo'-twelve."

Hanvey moved a couple of steps toward the elevator, then turned for a
moment. "Son!"

"What?"

"Next time I come remember I ain't no guy. I'm a feller."

Sherwood answered Hanvey's ring in person; a slender man of medium
height, distinguished in appearance, exquisitely groomed, very much at
ease. He ushered his visitor into a richly comfortable library, where
he motioned toward a chair, into which Hanvey thumped gratefully. He
stared about the room in frank approval.

"Awful soft, eh, Arthur?"

The host smiled, exhibiting twin rows of even white teeth. "Rather
comfortable."

"Business must be good."

"It is. Very."

"H'mph!"

Hanvey yawned with his eyes, inspecting the rich furnishings, which
gave testimony to the unerringly fastidious taste of the owner. Still
gazing Jim produced from a tarnished almost-silver cigar case two
projectiles of profound blackness. He handed one to Sherwood, who
accepted it gingerly, smelled of it suspiciously, and then emitted a
single exclamation of protest.

"It ain't the worst in the world," remarked Hanvey. Sherwood produced
a bottle and glasses. Hanvey joined him with gusto. "Here's to you,
Arthur. May the judge give you a light sentence."

Sherwood smiled with his lips, but in his eyes lay a faint light of
apprehension. He made no comment upon the detective's toast. For a few
minutes silence maintained between them, Hanvey draining his liquor at
a gulp, Sherwood sipping his with the relish of a connoisseur. It was
the visitor who broke the silence.

"It's gonna be pretty tough, Arthur--givin' up all of this."

"Is it?"

"Uh-huh. But you shouldn't have done it."

It was patent that Sherwood was very much on guard. "Done what?"

"Steal them jools off Mrs. Haley."

"I?"

"Yeh--you. It was a pretty slick piece of work, Arthur. But it wasn't
quite slick enough."

Sherwood seated himself opposite the detective and crossed one leg over
the other. He lighted a cigar of his own, a rich, fragrant, expensive
thing.

His tone was quietly argumentative as he replied:

"I think it was slick enough, Jim."

"Aw, Arthur! I'm s'prised at you."

"I was a bit surprised at myself, Jim. As a matter of fact, I don't
believe you're going to arrest me for that little affair."

"Why not?"

"You can't prove a thing. And if you arrest me without sufficient
evidence to convict, you'll have the double disappointment of seeing
yourself made ridiculous while I go free. And safe."

Hanvey nodded agreement. "You're an awful plausible talker, Arthur." He
leaned forward in his chair. "Just between friends--you did steal them
jools, didn't you?"

"Between friends?"

"Uh-huh."

"Yes, I stole them. But you can't prove it, Jim."

"M'm! I could arrest you now an' say that you confessed you stole 'em."

"It wouldn't help you. Any flatfoot can do that any time he wishes--but
it doesn't secure a conviction. What you need, Jim, is evidence--and
evidence is the one thing you can't get. If you arrest me and say that
I confessed I'll simply deny it, and where will you be? You need proof,
my boy; proof."

Hanvey reflected heavily.

"Reckon you're right, Arthur. I was hoping you wouldn't put me to all
the trouble of gettin' it. I was hopin' to get away on a little fishin'
trip."

Sherwood was more at ease. "What makes you think I got that stuff?"

"I don't think it, Arthur; I know it. I suspected it, and
then I checked up. I'll hand you one thing, son--you sure
are--what-you-call-it?--an opportunist."

"Am I?"

"You are. I'm handlin' this affair for the company that Mrs. Haley's
jools was insured in, and I've been down to N'Yawlins checkin' up. I
reckon I know more about this affair than you do."

"That's interesting."

"Ain't it? An' seein' that you've been so frank as to admit that you
done it, p'r'aps you'd like to know what I know about it myself, eh?"

"Yes."

Jim's voice, flat and expressionless, seemed to fill the expensively
furnished room.

"Startin' at the beginnin', Arthur, there was Mrs. Grover Haley,
wife of the president of the L. R. & C. Railroad. Hubby traveled
the usual route to sudden wealth--engine wiper, fireman, engineer,
superintendent. Then he made a killing in oil. They elected him
president of the road. Worth close onto twenty millions now. Lives
in Chicago. His wife--she ain't exactly one of these here sylphs. He
married her when he was a fireman. He's president of the road now, but
she's still a fireman's wife. Fightin' all the time to rise up, but not
succeedin' specially well.

"This here Mrs. Haley ain't strong on polish, but she's got the old
ambish by the tail on a downhill pull. Far as her appearance is
concerned--she ain't got any. She's sort of the same upholstery style
that I am. An' the only thing she craves in this world is society; none
of your pikin' society, either, but the genuine stuff; the kind that
even twenty millions can't buy. For seven years she's been trying to
jimmy into the real crowd, an' meetin' with about as much success as
an oyster in a hurdle race." He paused briefly. "I've got it pretty
straight so far, haven't I, Arthur?"

The other man smiled. "That much is fairly common knowledge."

"Reckon it is. Well, to go on, this here Mrs. Haley starts out from
Chicago about a month ago in her private car, headed for Palm Beach by
way of Memphis an' N'Yawlins. She carries with her a maid an' a chef
an' a butler. Also she carries with her about one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars' worth of joolry which she plans to wear all at one
time, just to prove that she's a lady. An' about the time she makes her
plans a certain Mr. Arthur Sherwood, who is playin' the races down in
N'Yawlins, gets wind of it and decides to make a play for them stones.

"Far as I can see, Arthur, you started out without any definite plan.
Opportunist--ain't that the word I used before? You figured that all
you needed was to get close enough to them jools for a long enough time
an' they were yours. An' so, as society is your fad, you went an' had
some cards engraved which announced that you was Mr. Albert Grinnell
Stoneham, said Mr. Stoneham bein' the son of one of the most exclusive
families socially in New York, where they have society as is society.

"You meet the train at Memphis and just after leaving there your card
goes back to Mrs. Haley, an' that dame nearly drops dead with joy. To
make it brief, she lassoes the son of the great Stoneham family and
makes him her guest. It looks like the first real break-in she's made
in seven years, as it gives her an elegant excuse to drop in on Pa and
Ma Stoneham when she gets to New York next time. And so Mr. Sherwood,
alias Mr. Stoneham, gets an awful warm welcome on the private car, an'
Mrs. Haley wears a hundred and fifty thousand dollars' worth of joolry
every time she comes within range of his eyes." Jim lighted another
cigar. "Wasn't your fingers itching to grab them stones an' run,
Arthur?"

"I'm very fond of jewelry, Jim."

"Sure! Or you wouldn't have taken all them chances. I've checked up,
you see. To get ahead: You reached N'Yawlins at eight o'clock. You
had been down there at the races, an' you had gone to Memphis to meet
that train. The car was going out on a Jacksonville train at six the
next morning. An' you asked Mrs. Haley wouldn't she like to go for a
sightseeing drive. You went out an' hired a big touring car an' you
went for the drive. You gave her an awful good feed at Emil's--they say
you know how to order a swell dinner, Arthur--an' about ten o'clock
that night you showed up at the Spanish Fort Inn.

"Out there you had a swell time. Bein' known to the head waiter, not to
mention the proprietor, the sky was the limit. You had cocktails an'
champagne an' maybe even a liqueur or six. Poor Mrs. Haley, thinkin'
she was in Rome, done as the Romans did, an', to put it mild an'
polite, got sweetly spifflicated. Not drunk, but terribly happy. She
found herself sittin' on top of the world an' didn't care who saw her.
You left the inn about two in the A.M. an' Mrs. Haley insisted
on sittin' in front with you so's she could drive the car. You wasn't
particularly keen about it, but you didn't kick hard enough, because
same is what she done, the shoffer reclinin' in the back.

"The old dame had started out to prove she could drive--an' she
proved it. I reckon she must have busted sixty sev'ral times comin'
into the city. Ol' gal was just naturally havin' a helluva time. That
is, she was until you got 'most home. It was there that somethin'
happened--because it was there, Arthur, that a cop seen the speed you
was goin' at an' tried to stop you. An' poor Mrs. Haley, not carin'
nothin' for no cops, with a bunch of drinks inside her, ran into him!

"What happened then, Arthur"--and Jim Hanvey shook his enormous head
reprovingly--"was downright unfortunate. The cop was stunned. You
stopped your car, an' just when you did the cop moved, indicating that
he wasn't so terribly hurt. With which the missus slipped into gear,
stepped on the gas an' let 'er rip. Cop fired one time in the air an'
you were free. Mrs. Haley drove that car to somewhere in the French
quarter, you got out an' slipped the scared shoffer a nice piece of
change to keep mum, and back you beat it to the private car.

"That's where good luck played into your hands, Arthur; right plumb
into 'em. Bein' an opportunist----Say! That's a swell word, ain't it? I
got it out of the dictionary before I come here. Bein' an opportunist
like I was sayin', you'd just stuck around with the fat dame, knowin'
that sooner or later you'd get a chance at them jools. An' kerflooie,
her cop-knockin' experience puts everything in your paws. How? Because
you knew darned good an' well that shoffer was goin' to lay pretty low
on account of what they'd give him if they ever found out it was his
car. The farther away he keeps from the spotlight in connection with
that case the more comfortable he's gonna be.

"An' of course Mrs. Haley is now a fugitive from justice down in
N'Yawlins.

"You took her back to the private car. She had sobered up more than
a little, but the strong stuff was still there inside of her. Her
nerves was doin' a shimmy, an' you gave her plenty more to drink.
Finally she went to sleep. When that happened you grabbed the jools
an' hopped the car. Mrs. Haley didn't wake up until she was on her way
to Jacksonville. It was a couple hours later that she found out the
jools was gone--an' you too. The old gal nearly went nuts until she
remembered her insurance, then she figured she was sittin' on Easy
Street. An' it may interest you to know that the insurance money has
already been paid to her; one hundred thousand dollars."

Sherwood sat motionless, staring admiringly at the portly detective.
By no slightest physical sign did he give indication of his genuine
enthusiasm for Hanvey's deductive powers, although he marveled at them
with the frank appreciation of one brainy man for the accomplishments
of another.

Hanvey's story was correct to a detail. Sherwood knew the exhaustive
search that the detective must have made, the painstaking probing.

And now--"You're working for the insurance company aren't you, Jim?"

"Yeh." Hanvey was very open about it. "We've already paid the money,
but we're interested now in gettin' the jools back an' puttin' you in
stir. That's why I come to see you."

Sherwood smiled. "You're not going to arrest me, Jim."

"Why not?"

"Because you can't prove a thing."

Jim grinned. "Maybe not just yet. I've talked to Mrs. Haley. Bein' a
social climber she ain't any too keen to let it be known publicly that
she was imposed on by a faker. That'd make folks laugh at her. An'
if, in addition to that, it was ever known that she was the woman who
flattened the N'Yawlins cop at the end of a wild party it'd sort of
queer her about as queer as could be. An' since she ain't sufferin'
only a fifty-thousand-dollar loss anyway--she most certainly wouldn't
identify you.

"Y'see, Arthur, it's thisaway: I spotted you easy enough. You are known
out at the inn. But nobody knew the dame who was with you. An' it was
her that hit the cop. Also, I'm confessin' frankly that the maid an'
the chef an' the butler ain't gonna identify you neither. Mrs. Haley
has fixed them a-plenty. So she's in the clear, you've got the jools,
an' we're stung. That makes us plumb angry, Arthur; bein' rode for a
hundred thousand thataway. It just naturally puts it up to me to get
you an' the jools both."

"I hope you enjoy yourself trying, Jim."

"I been havin' a good enough time a'ready. But I ain't particularly
keen about the job. You're too good a crook to be in jail. But, by
gosh, Arthur, you never should of fooled with no woman!"

Sherwood was unimpressed. "You can't find the jewels, Jim."

"Reckon I can. Reckon I can land you too."

"How?"

"Because a crook can't get away with it if the tecs are really after
him. You've slipped somewhere. It's just up to me to find out where."

"I'm surprised at you--thinking I've slipped."

"You ain't no different from other crooks, Arthur, except you've got
more sense."

"Well"--Arthur rose ostentatiously--"I reckon you want to trot me down
to headquarters."

"No. Certainly not. Ain't no use of my arresting you unless you're
going to plead guilty."

"Sometimes you're a real humorist, Jim."

"Ain't I? I'm awful cute occasionally. What I really come up for,
Arthur, was to tell you how much I know. I want you to see just where
you stand. I figured you'd be willin' to help me all you could."

"Certainly, Jim, certainly. Just drop around any old time and talk
things over. I'll do all in my power to hinder you."

"Thanks, Arthur. I counted on you for that."

They shook hands; slender, immaculate, polished man-about-town and the
mammoth expressionless detective. The contrast was striking. Sherwood
ushered Hanvey to the door and bade him a cordial farewell. Then alone,
the criminal dropped into a chair and mopped his forehead with a silken
handkerchief.

Hanvey had startled him--just as Hanvey had intended. With uncanny
intuition Hanvey had pieced together a story so nearly approximating
the facts that Sherwood was amazed. And he was now very much on guard.
The one hundred and fifty thousand dollars' worth of jewelry nestled
in a safety-deposit box at one of the Manhattan banks. It was a box
Sherwood had possessed for several years, holding it against just such
an opportunity as this. It was rented under an assumed name.

Immediately after the jewel robbery he had boarded a train for New
York, but not before he carefully had unset the gems and pitched the
elaborate platinum settings into the depths of Lake Pontchartrain. The
jewels in their little chamois sack were safe.

From the outset Sherwood had realized that he would have difficulty in
disposing of the gems. He was content. A stake of that size was worth
waiting for--two years, three, five. But he had not anticipated that
suspicion would so readily attach to himself. Now that Jim knew the
story, he felt that he must redouble his precautions.

The Mrs. Haley end of the situation was safe. He smiled at
recollection of the pitifully gullible wife of the railroad president;
the blatant, rather vulgar woman who thought to get into the most
exclusive social circles by a display of jewelry. She had been so
eagerly responsive to his glib chattering about prominent New Yorkers,
had so warmly welcomed his casual invitation to telephone when next she
came to New York in order that his supposed parents should have the
opportunity of entertaining her.

He had understood fully the value of social position to Mrs. Haley.
For years she had struggled gamely, mounting with horrid slowness.
She was jealous of her trifling successes. This story, made public in
the newspapers and expanded in the dirt-slinging weeklies, would ruin
her forever. Safety was possible to her in only one way--she must not
identify the man who had been her guest on the private car. And Hanvey
had reassured him on that point. That had been the single doubtful link
in his safety chain; and he knew now that it was one of the strongest.

He'd have to watch Jim Hanvey for a while. It would be an interesting
game, laughing in his sleeve as Hanvey banged his fat head against an
endless succession of brick walls. Eventually Jim would tire of the
search, and then he would dispose of the jewels one by one. Not in a
group, of course--they were of such great value that the attention of
the police would immediately be attracted through the kind efforts
of stool pigeons--but singly, at distant points, and with utmost
discretion. The more Sherwood contemplated the plan the more assured
he became. He felt sorry for Jim Hanvey. "Nice fellow too. I hate to
see him fall down on the case."

As for the detective, he apparently did not share Sherwood's fear for
his non-success. If he had a worry he concealed it exceedingly well
behind the pudgy face. Too, he fell into the habit of calling casually
on Sherwood at odd hours, and discussing the case.

"Hello, Jim. How's old Sherlock Holmes getting on?"

"So-so, Arthur; just so-so."

"Haven't gathered any definite information, have you?"

"You know durn well I haven't, Arthur."

"You'd better get them to shift you to something else. You'll never get
the dope on me."

"Maybe not. An' maybe so. There ain't no tellin'."

Sherwood leaned forward and rested a friendly hand on Jim Hanvey's
knee. "On the level, Jim, you're wasting your time. You know me; you
know I'm not a fool."

"Sure, I know that."

"And you know that I've taken every possible precaution. I was careful
enough before; I'm doubly careful now. With you on the case, Jim, I
wouldn't take a chance for anything in the world."

"You're terrible complimentary."

"I know you, Jim. You ain't half the fool you look. You couldn't be.
Now, frankly, I don't expect to cash in on this little deal for four or
five years, and----"

"You ain't ever going to cash in on it, Arthur."

The narrow, rather ascetic face of the criminal broke into a broad
grin. "Trying to make me apprehensive?"

"No; just talkin' sense. You know the gang I'm working for. It ain't so
much the hundred thou' insurance money they've shelled out as it is the
principle of the thing. They're just butt-headed enough to be willin'
to spend money an' time to get you."

"It's impossible."

"Nothin's impossible. No matter how clever you are, you've slipped
somewhere."

"I haven't slipped."

"You think you haven't. An' as for you cashing in, you never will.
You're playing a lone hand, Arthur, but I ain't. Real detectives never
do. I've got the police of the country helpin' me on this thing, an'
every stool pigeon we've got is watching for them jools. They're going
to keep on watching. An'"--Jim Hanvey leaned forward earnestly--"you
ain't gonna cash in on this deal, Arthur, because there ain't a livin'
human bein' who'd buy them jools offen you. Not a single living soul."

Sherwood laughed shortly. He was impressed, and tried not to show it.

"We know every fence who'd handle a deal of that size, Arthur. Every
one of them. An' they're all bein' watched. The little jools don't
matter, but the minute one of them big ones shows up--we're on a hot
trail. An' then Mr. Sherwood does a stretch--worse luck."

"I'll wait."

"So will we. Waitin' is the best thing we do. We're just naturally
bound to get you. I'd be doubtful if there was any person in the world
you could sell them jools to, but there ain't. Not a one. We've taken
care of that. An' the comp'ny has told me the sky's the limit. Besides,
Arthur, there ain't so bloomin' many places you could of hid them
jools. All the time you're waitin' we're workin'. You can't get away
with it. The minute I was sure it was you I knew it was just a question
of time before I landed you with the dope. Now if you was willin' to
make a clean breast of it----"

Sherwood threw back his head and laughed. "Jim Hanvey! I thought better
of you than that."

"A'right." The detective hoisted himself from the depths of a leather
rocker. "Have it your own way, Arthur. But I sure do wish it was some
other feller than you. I'm awful strong for you."

"I know it, Jim." There was genuine feeling in the other's voice. "It's
just a little game; you're on one side and I'm on the other. One of us
has got to lose--and I'm plumb sorry it's you."

Alone again Sherwood walked to the window, where he stood looking down
into Central Park. Dusk was merging gently into night. The shadowy
walks under the trees were dislimning in the softly gathering gloom.
There floated up to his ears the commanding screech of automobile
sirens, the clang of passing Eighth Avenue cars, the voices of a group
of children. Then into the picture bulked the slouching figure of Jim
Hanvey.

Sherwood watched the ungainly hulk interestedly. He saw Hanvey enter
the park and pause to light a cigar. There was something almost
pathetic about the big hulking man, a humbleness that was deceptive to
those who did not know him intimately. Too, there was a fairness and
squareness which made him popular with the higher class of criminals.
They knew he was on the level. He took no unfair advantage of them. He
played the game clean. "If I've got to be caught I'd rather Jim Hanvey
made the pinch." That was the idea; they were proud of their friendship
with Jim Hanvey. They played clean with him and he with them. He looked
out for them after he arrested them; saw they were given a square deal;
didn't forget them when they were doing time. A lonely man, Jim Hanvey;
big and ugly and ungainly--and eagerly friendly. His best friends stood
high in the criminal social register. Outside the underworld he had no
intimates.

Sherwood saw him walk on slowly, in the lumbering gait of a man too
bulky for his feet. And gradually the big figure was lost in the gloom.
He was there--then gone. Sherwood turned away from the window, "It's a
dirty shame. He would have made a wonderful crook."

He pondered over his recent conversation with the detective. Jim's
utterances were worthy of serious reflection; Jim was not given to
trickery of speech. Besides he knew Sherwood too well to bluff. He
understood that Sherwood would play a waiting game.

Sherwood was willing, but a trifle disturbed. He hadn't anticipated
having the robbery traced to his door so promptly. There had been no
opportunity to dispose of even a few of the gems. And he wasn't too
well supplied with cash. Of course with Jim watching every move it
would be impossible to pull another job; he'd have to lay low and take
things easy. Worse luck.

Jim was right of course. At present there was no one to whom he could
sell the jewels. No professional fence would handle them, and if an
amateur took over the jewels he, Sherwood, would be lucky to get ten
thousand dollars. "And I'll never let them go for that; not if I have
to wait ten years."

He visited Jim Hanvey a couple of days later. "I've been thinking over
our little talk, Jim."

"That's good."

"Suppose I handed the jewels to you, would you forget that you knew who
took them?"

"Wish I could, Arthur, but it isn't possible. We want you."

Sherwood shrugged. "I'll just have to wait then."

"That's foolish. I'll get you sooner or later. You might as well come
clean and start serving your time now. Every day you put it off is just
that much time wasted."

"I've got plenty of time, Jim."

"Yeh, reckon so. I hardly thought you'd 'fess up."

"Not a chance."

"I'm real sorry for you, Arthur. All that trouble, all that risk--and
you ain't gonna get nothin' out of it."

"I'll make out very well."

"Nope. You can't sell 'em, an' there ain't no other way of realizin' on
your investment of time and effort."

Sherwood knew that he must hold on for a long, long while. It was
awkward, but necessary. He was too clever a performer to worry about
financial stringency. Jim was after him now as keenly as he was after
the jewels, even more so. Of course he had never intended turning
the jewels over to Hanvey; had quizzed him solely for the purpose of
finding out whether it was the man or the jewels they were seeking. The
fact that it was the former made greater caution imperative.

Jim was using the police too. That was further embarrassment. The
police system bothers criminals, it is so extensive and comprehensive,
a system of surveillance that eventually wears a man down. Playing
lone hands, Sherwood knew that the advantage would always be with
the criminal. But fighting against the individual brilliance of a
detective and the inexorable patience and scope of the nation's police
departments, a man had to watch his step pretty carefully.

Sherwood was willing--but it was deucedly uncomfortable.

Jim had impressed him. There was no one to whom he could sell the
jewels; not for several years, at any rate, not a soul. Unless,
perhaps----Sherwood nodded slowly. "It's worth thinking over," he told
himself.

Two days later Sherwood's telephone buzzed, and Jim Hanvey's monotonous
droning voice came to him over the wire:

"That you, Arthur?"

"Yes."

"This is Jim Hanvey."

"Yes."

"Busy?"

"Not particularly."

"How 'bout droppin' over to my rooms a minute. I got somethin' to show
you; somethin' real interestin'."

"Coming."

"Right away?"

"Pronto."

A taxi, a swift journey uptown to West 110th Street; Jim Hanvey's
three-room apartment--a stuffy affair grotesquely furnished and vilely
kept; three rooms which sagged under the heavy odor of Jim's cigars.

Sherwood swore fervently and threw up the windows in the tiny parlor.

"Jim, you shouldn't."

"What?"

"Smoke those cigars indoors."

"Oh! Them? Gosh! I like 'em."

"The other tenants don't kick?"

"Dunno. The janitor done time once in Joliet, an' him an' me is
buddies. He was a awful rotten yegg, but he's a swell janitor. That
just shows----Anyway, you ain't interested in him; n'r me neither for
that matter. I got somethin' to show you."

"So you said."

"C'mere."

Sherwood trailed his host into the dining room. Jim motioned him to a
chair. "Just got one thing to ask, Arthur; that is that you use your
eyes--not your hands."

"Whatever you say, Jim."

"Good." From the capacious hip pocket of his voluminous trousers Hanvey
extracted a little chamois sack. Sherwood's eyes narrowed slightly.
Chamois sack! Jewelry! Hanvey, apparently unmindful of his visitor,
droned on:

"Just you watch, Arthur--but remember, hands off."

With a quick deft motion he opened the sack and spilled its contents on
the imitation-mahogany table. The fishlike eyes of the detective were
focused vacantly upon Arthur Sherwood, who had started involuntarily
from his seat. Then Sherwood caught himself, controlled his nerves with
an effort and tried to smile.

"What's the idea, Jim?"

Hanvey's glassy eyes were turned to the table top, upon which glowed
and flamed a handful of magnificent gems--matched pearls, diamonds of
rare cut and brilliance, a huge blood ruby, twin emeralds of enormous
size and clarity, deep Oriental sapphires. The eyes of the detective
closed slowly, sleepily, then opened with maddening leisureliness.

"How you like 'em, Arthur?"

Sherwood appeared at ease, but his nerves were under a terrific
tension. "Very much."

"Look familiar?"

Sherwood nodded frankly. "Yes."

They were familiar; stone for stone they were the jewels he had stolen
from Mrs. Haley--stolen from her, stripped from their mountings, and
which at that moment he could have sworn were safe in a box at one of
the city's largest banks. There was no mistaking them--the ruby, the
big diamond with the odd workmanship.

"What are they, Jim?"

Hanvey grinned genially.

"Paste."

"Paste?"

"Sure. Can't you tell?"

"Where did you get them?"

"Had 'em made from the descriptions the insurance company has. I think
they look grand--for paste."

Sherwood stared at the glittering gems as though hypnotized. And while
he gazed Hanvey's huge hand went out and swept them back into the
chamois sack. "Awful good imitations, I think, Arthur."

Sherwood laughed weakly. "They are. Mighty clever."

The sack was returned to Hanvey's pocket. "I got to be trottin' along
downtown, Arthur. That's all I wanted of you--just to show you them
imitation jools."

Sherwood was nervous. He more than half expected to be arrested, and he
drew a deep breath of relief as he stepped into the street. He walked
swiftly toward the corner, turned sharply, and saw Hanvey emerge from
the apartment house and follow him. A slight frown corrugated the
criminal's forehead.

He was frankly worried. Hanvey was too insistent about the brummagem
quality of the gems. Doubt assailed him. Perhaps they were the
genuine stones. It was impossible--but if they were imitations they
were wonderful. Suppose Hanvey had discovered the location of his
safety-deposit box and the name in which it was held? Suppose he had
actually secured the gems?

Sherwood hailed a passing taxi and entered. As he did so he saw another
cab ease around the corner. Jim Hanvey overflowed the back seat, cigar
between his pursy lips. Sherwood spoke swiftly to his driver. "See that
cab yonder?"

"Yeh."

"Lose it and you get twenty dollars."

"Cinch."

At the same moment Hanvey was speaking with his own driver. "See that
cab up ahead--the one the good-lookin' feller is just gettin' into?"

"Uh-huh."

"Foller it an' you get five dollars."

"Cinch."

The chase started. Both cabs swung into Riverside Drive at moderate
speed, Sherwood's driver playing a careful game until such time as he
might find an opportunity to elude pursuit in a traffic jam. Along
Riverside they went, turning eastward to Broadway on Seventy-second
Street, thence down that thoroughfare to Park Circle. It was there that
luck played into Sherwood's hands. His cab crossed Park Circle just
as the traffic policeman raised his hand. It took Hanvey fully a half
minute to exhibit his credentials to the policeman, and by that time
Sherwood had sped eastward on Fifty-eighth Street, turning downtown on
Sixth Avenue and doubling back uptown via Fiftieth Street and Ninth
Avenue.

Sherwood was confident that he had eluded Hanvey, but he was taking no
chance. As a matter of fact, additional precaution was unnecessary.
Hanvey's taxi reached Fifty-eighth, Jim glanced down the avenue through
an endless line of cabs, touring cars and busses, and motioned his
driver to a halt. "Needn't go no farther, son. They've got away. How
much?"

"Dollar eighty."

Hanvey handed him a two-dollar bill. "Keep the change." Then, as he
started across toward the Subway kiosk, he glanced at his watch.
"Three-thirty--hmph!"

He entered the Subway and rode uptown. When he alighted it was to walk
to Central Park West and seat himself on the steps of Sherwood's
apartment house. He was smiling slightly and there appeared to be a
faint sign of life in his dead fishy eyes. Sherwood had proceeded with
meticulous care. He left his taxi on West Sixty-fourth Street, took
a surface car to the Pennsylvania Hotel, entered the Subway via the
lobby of that hostelry, rode downtown and thence to his bank, where
he secured access to the safety-deposit box held by himself under the
alias of Roger Clarkson.

His examination took but a moment. The jewels were there, every last
one of them. He sighed relievedly. Then as he left the bank he found
himself worrying. He realized that Jim Hanvey had some deeply ulterior
motive, that he had not gone to the trouble and expense of securing
the paste duplicates without making them a part of an elaborate trap.
Hanvey's very frankness had been disquieting. Paste, said Hanvey, made
from the insurance-company descriptions. Well, Hanvey had told the
truth. But why? Sherwood was apprehensive. Here had entered the first
element the criminal was unable to understand. Until this moment he
had felt a bit sorry for Jim Hanvey's heavy blundering, his bovine
indifference and his lethargy. But now----

Still seeking a solution Sherwood rode uptown on the Elevated and then
walked to his apartment. As he turned in at the door the monster figure
of Jim Hanvey hoisted itself from the marble steps.

"Hello, Arthur."

"Jim! You here?"

"Naw! I'm over in Brooklyn huntin' for the other end of the bridge."

Sherwood took his friend by the arm. "Come upstairs a minute, Jim. I
want to chat with you."

"Sure."

Hanvey selected the most comfortable chair and crashed into it.
Sherwood walked to the window, put up the shade and turned toward the
Gargantuan figure of his friend. Sherwood's face was in shadow, that of
the detective in the full glare of daylight--as expressionful as putty.

"I've been trying to figure out your little play, Jim."

"Have you?"

"Yes. And I don't get the answer. About the only idea I can see behind
it was that you showed me those imitations to make me go down to the
vault where I have the real stones to reassure myself."

"You're hittin' on all six so far, Arthur."

"And that you'd trail me there and find out what box----"

"Arthur Sherwood! I'm plumb disappointed in you--knockin' me thataway.
You don't honestly think I thought I could trail you through the
streets of New York, do you?"

"It didn't seem so, Jim--unless you were attaining your second
childhood. But I couldn't figure out any other reason--and you did try
to follow me."

Hanvey shook his head slowly. "Nope."

"In that taxi?"

"That wasn't my idea, Arthur." The detective's big spatulate fingers
drummed lightly on the table. "All I was doin', Arthur, was to make
sure that you was tryin' to shake me!"

"A-ah!" Sherwood's thin lips compressed. Hanvey waved genially. "Think
it over."

Sherwood thought it over. Then: "Well, I was trying to shake you. Where
does that get you?"

"A heap of places, Arthur. 'Cause how? 'Cause the minute you tried to
shake me I knew good an' well you was doin' it because you was headed
for the vault where you had the jools hid. Of course it is a vault--no
crook of your intelligence would hide 'em anywheres else. So the minute
you gave me the slip I come on back here an' waited for you."

"Ye-e-es." Sherwood was puzzled. "But why?"

"Because, Arthur, I laid an awful clever trap for you, an' you fell
into it. You don't mind my callin' myself clever, do you, Arthur? I
really do think it was an awful good stunt I pulled."

"Just what was it, Jim?"

Hanvey glanced at his enormous watch. "Just this: At some time between
3:45 and 4:30 this afternoon you went to your bank box. You signed your
card--under an alias, of course. An' to-morrow mornin' I start out
inspectin' the vault cards of every bank in New York. I'll get help
from headquarters, an' eventually we'll check up on every man, woman
an' child who entered a bank box in that three-quarters of an hour."

The detective grinned in boyish approval of his own acumen. "'Tain't
gonna be such an easy job, Arthur, but it ain't gonna be so hard
neither--me not carin' particularly about time in this case. Of course
I know the box is in a Manhattan bank, because you got back too quick
to have gone to Brooklyn or even Jersey City. Jerry Naschbaum, chief
of the headquarters identification force, will let me have a few good
men to help. In one week, two weeks mebbe three, we'll check up on
everybody who entered a bank box between 3:45 and 4:30 to-day. An' when
we've done that, Arthur, we'll have you. See?"

Arthur saw. "I wish some one else was on this case, Jim. You're too
blamed painstaking."

"Better 'fess up now."

"No; I'll take my chances."

"Ain't gonna get you nowhere. You can't sell them jools; there ain't a
soul in the world would buy 'em offen you."

"Maybe not." Sherwood opened the door invitingly. "Sorry you have to be
going, Jim."

"I'm sorry myself, Arthur." He turned at the doorway. "I'm kinder cute
yet, ain't I?"

"I hope not, Jim," was the answer.

It did not take Sherwood long to realize that he was nearing the end of
his rope. He might have known that Jim Hanvey was going to trap him.
That had been a clever trick of Jim's, and it promised definite and
fairly immediate results. Hanvey was right; the task of checking up
would be a slow and difficult undertaking, but Sherwood knew the police
system sufficiently well to understand--and fear--its tirelessness.
Eventually they'd complete their check-up, and when they did----

Sherwood admitted to himself that he must dispose of the jewels.
Thought of transferring them to another box was out of the question.
They'd discover that eventually. The thing to do was to rid himself
of the gems. But Jim Hanvey had insisted that he could not sell them
because there was no market. Jim had spoken truly. No market. "Oh,
confound Mrs. Haley and her jewelry!"

Sherwood caught his breath suddenly. Mrs. Haley! Puffy, ponderous Mrs.
Haley! The poor, bewildered, self-sufficient Mrs. Haley, who had lost
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars' worth of jewelry and been
partially reimbursed with one hundred thousand dollars of the insurance
company's money. Sherwood smashed his right fist into the palm of his
left hand.

"There's my market! I'll sell the jewels back to Mrs. Haley!"

He paced the room, his brain running riot with the sardonic daring of
his scheme. He knew Jim Hanvey was not infallible. Jim had been so
confident that no one would buy the jewels--so confident that he had
completely overlooked Mrs. Haley.

And Mrs. Haley would buy. He'd make her buy. No one would think of
looking to her for the gems. She could have them set in new mountings
and no one would ever be the wiser. He'd sell them to her for fifty
thousand dollars, and she'd be fifty thousand dollars winner on the
transaction. Then Jim Hanvey could search all he pleased.

He telephoned Mrs. Haley. She was decidedly disinclined to meet him. He
assumed a threatening tone. She consented fearfully. They met at Port
Chester, he going there by train and she by automobile. She refused
frankly to have anything further to do with him.

"Very well, Mrs. Haley. When they arrest me I'll tell the whole story.
What happened in New Orleans for one thing; then about your refusal
to identify me--I know they've shown you my picture. It will be a
choice morsel for the newspapers, and a wonderful story for the society
weeklies. You'll be laughed out of the country."

"But if they find out that I've bought them back from you----" The
woman was on the verge of hysteria. She was horribly frightened.

"They won't. You're the last person on earth they'd think of in
connection with those jewels. You buy them. They can search all they
please and they can't get the goods on me. They won't even arrest me
because there'll be no evidence to convict. And you will be fifty
thousand dollars to the good."

"I can't."

"You can."

"Well, I won't."

A steely light crept into his eyes. "You will! You must!"

Eventually she consented. There was nothing else she could do.
Petrified with terror, fearful of losing the tiny bit of social
recognition for which she had so valiantly struggled, inordinately
afraid of arrest in connection with the New Orleans escapade which had
assumed Brobdingnagian proportions in her eyes--she agreed to meet him
in the private dining room of a quiet hotel, bringing with her fifty
thousand dollars in cash, which was to be exchanged for the jewels. And
then, apprehensive and nervous, she left him.

Sherwood returned to the city, exultant. His plan had worked. It was
safe, supremely safe. For, even should she be eventually discovered in
possession of the jewels, she would never dare tell the true story.

But Jim Hanvey had not been idle. He made careful investigation and
then spent the entire afternoon chatting with the presidents of the
four New York banks where Mrs. Haley maintained personal checking
accounts. "She'll cash a big check here in the next few days,"
explained the detective to each of them. "A thunderin' big check; an'
she'll take the money in legal tender. Minute she does, telephone my
apartment. Ask for a feller named Henry Jones. He'll take the message
an' get in touch with me."

And then Jim Hanvey personally took unto himself the task of watching
Mrs. Haley.

It was not difficult. Suspecting no surveillance Mrs. Haley conducted
herself so that a blind man could have shadowed her. Mrs. Haley's
single major sorrow in life was the stubborn refusal of her husband to
take up his residence in New York. Her apartment was a sop, and during
her occasional sojourns in the metropolis she expended a vast amount of
effort in the task of letting people know that she was somebody. Purple
limousine, uniformed chauffeur and footman, shrieking clothes and
diamond-studded lorgnette combined to make Hanvey's self-appointed task
absurdly simple. And on the morning of the third day following, the man
called Jones notified his superior that only a few hours previously
Mrs. Haley had personally cashed her check for fifty thousand dollars.

Jim received the report with a nod. He was lolling comfortably in a
taxicab owned by the police department and driven by one of his own
operatives. "Yeh! I knew somethin' was about to break. I follered
her down to the bank an' seen her when she went in. She's in yonder
now"--he nodded in the general direction of the gingerbready apartment
house--"an' she'll be comin' out directly. Beat it, Henry."

Henry beat it. The purple limousine appeared. So, too, did Mrs. Haley.
Twenty minutes later she entered a modest downtown hotel. Hanvey
waited until she had crossed the lobby in the wake of a bellhop and
disappeared into an elevator. Then he followed and exhibited his
credentials to the manager, receiving from that startled dignitary a
bit of helpful information.

"There's a man in that private dining room already, isn't there?"

"Yes, sir."

"Good. I'll trot along up."

He allowed them ample time for conversation. And when he opened the
door with a master key furnished by the hotel management it was to
interrupt an interesting tableau.

By the table stood Mrs. Haley, clutching in her two hands the sack of
jewels. Sherwood was busily engaged in counting the money she had paid
over to him. Neither moved.

Hanvey closed the door gently. His wide-open, fishlike eyes blinked
with amazing slowness. Mrs. Haley choked, spluttered and collapsed
into a chair. Sherwood's eyes met Hanvey's levelly. The criminal was
apparently emotionless, a game loser. Very quietly he took the sack of
jewels from the nerveless hands of Mrs. Haley, returned her money and
extended the jewels to Hanvey.

"There has been no transaction here of the kind you think, Jim. I
am handing over the jewels of my own accord, and confessing to the
robbery. There is no need to drag this lady's name in the mud."

Hanvey bowed with ungainly grace. "Always a gent, eh, Arthur? I'm proud
of you." He turned to Mrs. Haley. "I reckon it wasn't ever your fault,
ma'am. An' me an' my friend Mr. Sherwood here will see that you don't
get no rotten publicity out of it."

She was dazed, but volubly and tearfully grateful. Sherwood, calm and
dignified, questioned the detective.

"You've got me, Jim. I had a hunch that I wouldn't get away with it.
But I have a professional and academic interest in the matter. There
are one or two things I don't quite understand."

"Always at your service, Arthur."

"First and most important"--Sherwood's voice was quietly
conversational--"what made you think I planned to sell the jewels back
to Mrs. Haley?"

Hanvey shook his head reprovingly; "I'm s'prised at you for not knowin'
such a simple thing as that, Arthur. The reason I knew you was gonna
sell them jools back to Mrs. Haley was because I suggested it to you."

"You suggested----" Then Sherwood smiled in frank admiration. "You mean
you suggested it when you said----"

"Sure," interrupted Hanvey pleasantly, "when I kept repeatin' that
there wasn't nobody in the world you could sell 'em to--I meant nobody
except Mrs. Haley."




                             COMMON STOCK


Gerald Corwin emerged from the elevator, glanced apprehensively about
the ornate lobby of the hotel and walked swiftly toward the dining
room. But as he handed hat and cane to the checker a huge, ungainly
figure bulked before him and a mild, pleasant voice brought misery
where a moment before there had been contentment.

"Gonna eat now, Corwin?"

Gerald sighed resignedly. Too thoroughly a gentleman to display
consciously his frank distaste, he was yet too poor a dissembler wholly
to conceal it. He merely nodded and strode disgustedly in the wake of
the obsequious head waiter, with Jim Hanvey waddling cumbersomely in
the rear.

Corwin was disgusted with the whole affair, and particularly that phase
of it which placed him under the chaperonage of the ponderous and
uncouth detective. Not that Jim had been obtrusive, but the man was
innately crude, and Corwin despised crudeness.

One could readily understand his antipathy. The two men were as
dissimilar as an orchid and a turnip. Corwin, about thirty years
of age, was tall and slender and immaculate, shrieking the word
"aristocrat" in every cultured gesture. He was unmistakably a
gentleman, a person to whom æsthetics was all-important, and he could
not fail to consider Jim Hanvey thoroughly obnoxious.

Jim was all right in his way, perhaps, but never before had Corwin been
forced into intimate association with a professional detective. He was
resentful, not of the fact that Jim Hanvey was a detective, but because
the man was hopelessly uncouth. Jim was an enormous individual and
conspicuously unwieldy. He wore cheap, ready-made clothes that no more
than approximately fitted his rotund figure. He smoked vile cigars and
wore shoes which rose to little peaks at the toes. But Corwin felt he
could have stood all that were it not for Jim's gold toothpick.

That golden toothpick, suspended as a charm from a hawserlike
chain extending across Jim's vest, had fascinated Corwin from the
commencement of their journey to Los Angeles. It was a fearsome,
flagrant instrument, and Jim Hanvey loved it. It had been presented
to him years before by a criminal of international fame as a token of
sincere regard. Otherwise unemployed, Jim was in the habit of sitting
by the hour with his fat fingers toying with the toothpick. Gerald had
once hinted that the weapon might better be concealed. His insinuation
resulted merely in debate.

"Stick it away? Why?"

"A toothpick----"

"Say, listen, Mr. Corwin; have you ever seen a handsomer toothpick?"

"No, but----"

"Well, I haven't either. That's why I'm proud to have folks see it.
It's absolutely the swellest toothpick in captivity."

No arguing against that, but from the first hour of the
acquaintanceship Corwin reviled the fates which decreed that for two
weeks he should be under Hanvey's eye.

The thing was absurd of course. Corwin, fearless and no mean athlete,
was well able to take care of himself and fulfill the delicate mission
with which he had been intrusted--a mere matter of securing a proxy
from Col. Robert E. Warrington and returning with it to New York in
time for the annual meeting of the stockholders. He was not a simpleton
and there was no doubting his integrity. Why, then, this grotesque and
goggle-eyed sleuth?

Matter of fact, Jim had appeared wholly disinterested since their
departure from New York. All the way across country he had slouched in
their drawing-room, staring through the window with his great, fishy
eyes. Those eyes annoyed Corwin. They seemed incapable of vision. They
were inhuman, stupid, glassy eyes which reflected no intelligence.
Corwin fancied himself the victim of a stupendous hoax; it was
unbelievable that this man could rightfully possess a reputation to
justify the present assignment.

The meal was torture to the fastidious younger man. There was no
denying that Jim enjoyed his dinner, but the enjoyment was too obvious.
Jim caught the disapproving glance of his companion and interpreted it
rightly.

"'Sall right, Mr. Corwin. Eatin' ain't no art with me. It's a pleasure."

Corwin flushed. Suddenly he discovered that Jim was not listening.
Hanvey had turned slightly and was gazing into a mirror which reflected
a section of the huge dining room. Corwin followed the direction of his
gaze and saw that the object of his scrutiny was a man of medium size
but muscular figure who was searching for a table.

Hanvey was interested, and as an indication of that interest he blinked
in his interminably deliberate manner, lids closing heavily over the
fishy eyes, remaining shut for a second, then uncurtaining even more
slowly. And finally, when the newcomer had seated himself, Jim nodded
toward him and addressed Corwin.

"Yonder's the answer," he said.

Corwin shook his head in puzzlement.

"To what?"

"Me."

"I don't quite understand."

"See that feller who just come in?"

"Yes."

"It's him."

Corwin inspected the newcomer with fresh interest. The man was of a
type, one of those optimistic individuals who futilely struggle to
acquire gentility and who fondly believe they have succeeded. In every
studied move of the man one could discern mental effort. Even the
hypercorrect raiment was subtly suggestive of a disguise. There was
nothing flagrantly wrong with the man, just as there was nothing quite
as it should be. Corwin, himself not an overly keen student of human
nature, could yet fancy the stranger's manner of speech--careful,
precise, stilted, rather malapropian, with here and there a moment of
forgetfulness, with its reversion to downright bad grammar. He turned
back to Hanvey.

"Who?"

"Billy Scanlan, alias Gentleman William, alias Flash Billy, alias Roger
van Dorn, alias, a half dozen other things. He's done time in Joliet
and Sing Sing. He's a good friend of mine." The faintest suggestion of
a smile played about the corners of Jim's mouth. "An' he's why your
crowd hired me to trail you out here."

It was quite plain to Hanvey, but Corwin was puzzled.

"I don't yet understand."

"You don't? Gosh, son, there couldn't anything be any plainer! We ain't
never discussed what brought you out here, but I know all about it just
the same; an' since you prob'ly won't answer no questions, I'll tell
you what I know. The Quincy-Scott gang started a drive recently to grab
off the control of the K. R. & P. Railroad from McIntosh and his crowd.
Before McIntosh woke up, the Quincy bunch had corralled every loose
vote, enough to give them a control in the forthcomin' stockholders'
meetin'. When McIntosh got wise he knew that his only hope was Colonel
Warrington out here in Los Angeles, the colonel ownin' about ninety
thousand shares of common stock. So he telephoned the old bird and
found out that he wasn't interested in the fight one way or the other;
that he'd already been approached by the Quincy-Scott combination an'
had turned 'em down cold an' final, which seemed to indicate that
with a little proper persuasion he'd be willin' to deliver a proxy to
McIntosh. It bein' 'most time for the meetin', an' things bein' pretty
desperate, they sent you out to get the proxy from the ol' gent, his
proxy gettin' there meanin' victory for McIntosh, an' its failure
leavin' the vote control with Quincy an' Scott. Ain't it so?"

Corwin was staring at Hanvey in amazement. The pudgy detective had
been speaking disinterestedly, casually, but he had the most intimate
facts at his finger-tips. Corwin nodded before he thought, then bit his
tongue.

"I'm not at liberty to say whether or not you're correct, Mr. Hanvey."

"Sure you ain't. You're dead right, son. Don't you never spill no beans
to nobody no time. I wasn't tryin' to pump you. I got the dope straight
from headquarters. I was just tellin' you so you'd understand that I
know why I was sent out with you, an' so you'd understand too."

Hanvey paused, and as though that ended the matter he extracted from an
elaborately engraved and sadly tarnished silver-plated cigar case two
huge black invincibles, one of which he reluctantly extended to his
companion. Corwin declined, and Jim sighed relievedly as he tenderly
returned the cigar to its place. He lighted the other, inhaled with
gusto and blew a cloud of the smoke into the air.

"I still don't understand, Mr. Hanvey."

Jim jerked his head toward Scanlan. "Billy's been sent out by the
Quincy gang. His job is to keep that proxy from getting to New York in
time for the stockholders' meeting."

"O-o-oh!"

Corwin's jaw hardened, his sinewy frame tensed and a fighting light
blazed in his fine, level eyes.

Jim grinned.

"They ain't gonna try no rough stuff. That ain't Bill Scanlan's way of
workin'. He's one of the smoothest con men in the known world, but he
ain't rough--not Billy. He's smooth as butter."

"Then how----"

"Easy enough, son. He'll be on the same train that carries us back
east, an' before we get to Chicago he'll swipe that proxy. At least
that's what he's figurin' he's goin' to do."

Matters were clarifying slightly in the brain of young Corwin. But his
curiosity was still unsatisfied.

"If I may ask, Mr. Hanvey, how do you know that he is the Quincy-Scott
agent?"

Jim shrugged his fat shoulders.

"Easy enough. Y'see, it's this way: When the good Lord manufactured
me he forgot to hand me out any good looks an' he slipped me entirely
too much figger. But he didn't find that out until too late, so what he
did to make up for it was to give me a mem'ry. I've got a mem'ry like
a cam'ra, son. I just naturally don't forget things, an' I've sort of
built up the rep of knowin' more professional crooks than any other
ten men put together. McIntosh knew that the other crowd would engage
a professional crook to get the proxy away from you, it not bein' no
job for an amachoor. He was sure to foller you out here, an' the way he
was plannin' to work was to scrape an acquaintance with you, you never
suspectin' nothin', which would have made things pretty easy for Billy.
I just trailed along to sort of point out to you the feller you wasn't
safe with, an' Billy Scanlan is him."

Gerald Corwin felt a fresh respect for the fat man with the bovine
expression, and a bit of his resentment vanished at the same time, for
he now understood one or two things which before had left him wholly
puzzled and more than a trifle resentful.

They finished their meal in silence. The check paid, they rose and
started from the dining room, but Hanvey took Corwin's arm.

"C'mon over an' lemme introduce you to Billy. It'll sort of make things
easier for him, bein' introduced formal-like, an' the poor feller's got
a tough-enough job on his hands as it is."

Startled but obedient, Corwin followed, and he saw the expression of
incredulous amazement, not untinged with apprehension, which flashed
into Scanlan's face as they paused by his table.

"Hello, Billy!"

Scanlan rose slowly. His jaw was set and it was plain that he was
struggling to orient himself to this bizarre situation. He strove to
make his tone casual.

"Hello, Jim!"

Hanvey was exceedingly gracious.

"Lemme introduce my friend Mr. Corwin. Mr. Corwin is the feller you
was sent out here to watch, Billy. Mr. Corwin, shake hands with Mr.
Scanlan."

Awkwardly the two men--one an innate gentleman and the other a student
at the school of gentility--shook hands. Corwin was a trifle sorry for
Scanlan. The man seemed afraid of Jim Hanvey.

"I'm pleased to meet Mr. Corwin."

"Sure you are." The voice of Hanvey chimed in genially. "Didn't you
come all the way from New York just for that? An' wasn't you wonderin'
how you was gonna work it? That's me--always ready to help out a
friend, Billy--so I up an' introduces you fellers."

"It's real kind of you, Jim"--Scanlan was choosing his words with
scrupulous care--"but I don't quite--er--comprehend what you're driving
at."

"No?" Hanvey's bushy eyebrows arched in surprise. "I'd sure hate to
think that you wasn't tellin' me the truth, Billy."

"I really don't understand your--a--innuendoes. I'm in Los Angeles on
a vacation and without no definite objective."

"Sure, Billy, sure! I know that. You're a gent of leisure, you are. But
if you could grab off that fat wad the Quincy-Scott people hung under
your nose, you wouldn't have no objections, would you?"

Scanlan's hand dropped on Hanvey's shoulder and he gazed earnestly into
the eyes of the detective, Corwin for the moment forgotten.

"Honest, Jim, I'm runnin' straight. I ain't plannin' a thing. So leave
me be, won't you?"

"I ain't aimin' to bother you none, Billy. Goodness knows, you're too
much of a gent to be in jail. Only it just struck me that I was doin'
you a favor by introducin' you to Mr. Corwin, him an' you both bein'
genuine swells an' li'ble to have a heap in common."

Suddenly reawakened to consciousness of Corwin's presence, Scanlan
pulled himself together.

"Mr. Hanvey is bound to have his little joke, Mr. Corwin. A very
interesting chap, isn't he?"

Corwin inclined his head gravely.

"Very."

Hanvey regarded them amusedly.

"You fellers like each other?"

They nodded.

"That's fine! I'm sure glad!" He turned away, then swung back suddenly.
"By the way, Billy, we're leaving on the California Limited Friday
morning, ten o'clock. We've got Drawin'-room A in Car S-17. I'm
tellin' you so you can get your reservations early on that train.
Eastern travel is awful thick these days."

They parted from the bewildered Scanlan. In the sanctuary of Hanvey's
room Gerald Corwin voiced his displeasure.

"You are probably a very great detective, Mr. Hanvey----"

"Naw! Not me! I'm just a fat, lucky bum."

"But it strikes me that you volunteered some valuable information
unnecessarily."

"To Billy?"

"Yes."

"How so?"

"About our reservations east. Why did you tell him the correct day?"

"I never lie to a crook," said Jim gravely. "It ain't fair. Besides, if
they're good enough crooks to be worth lyin' to a feller ain't gonna
get away with it. Billy will check up, an' once he found I'd lied to
him he'd lose all confidence in me."

"But I don't see what difference it makes."

"That's 'cause you're a business man, son. Detectives an' crooks know
the value of tellin' the truth."

"You didn't have to tell him who I was."

"No-o, that's true. But it saved him a heap of trouble."

"I don't understand your desire to save him trouble."

"It's this way, Mr. Corwin: The less trouble Billy has to take the more
time he'll have for thinkin', an' the more he thinks the worse off
he is. Thinkin', son, has ruined a heap of happy homes, an' don't you
forget it."

Hanvey was right. At that moment Billy Scanlan was slumped in a chair
in the hotel lobby, smoking cigarette after cigarette and wondering
what it all meant. He knew Jim Hanvey of old, was familiar with
the working methods of the ponderous, slow-moving, quick-thinking
detective; and he knew that Jim had told the truth. Of course he'd
check up, but that was a mere formality. All the more prominent
criminals knew that Jim Hanvey did not lie. That was one explanation of
the high esteem in which they held him--because he played fair.

Scanlan was worried. He had been intrusted with a definite mission,
one well suited to his peculiar talents. His job was to secure from
Gerald Corwin the proxy which Corwin was to receive from Col. Robert
E. Warrington and to deliver that proxy to the men who were fighting
to wrest control of the K. R. & P. from the McIntosh interests.
That was all. The sky was the limit so far as he was concerned. His
professional reputation was at stake. Besides, the reward offered by
the Quincy-Scott crowd was stupendous, and Billy was sadly in need of
ready cash--and plenty of it.

The presence of Jim Hanvey complicated matters somewhat in the way of
accomplishing a task already difficult and delicate. But Billy was
game and not entirely averse to matching wits with the gargantuan
detective. So he waited patiently in the lobby, watching the elevator
bank, and eventually he was rewarded when Gerald Corwin descended,
walked swiftly to the street and hailed a taxi.

As he drove off, Scanlan stepped into another cab.

"Follow that cab ahead. Keep about a block in the rear. When he stops
you stop."

As Scanlan drove off, he glanced over his shoulder in time to see the
ungainly figure of Jim Hanvey climb laboriously into yet a third taxi.
He did not quite fathom Jim's motive in following, but he didn't care
particularly. He knew that Jim knew he'd trail Corwin. So much for that.

Corwin's taxi driver, evidently aware that his fare was unfamiliar
with the vastness of Los Angeles, selected a circuitous route to the
Wilshire Boulevard address of Colonel Warrington. He drove through the
traffic to Pico and via that important thoroughfare to Western Avenue,
swinging across then to the fashionable Wilshire section, a tremendous
area of spotlessly white homes, immaculate lawns, stiff and artificial
gardening and aggressive affluence. Before the gates of a huge home,
the grounds of which occupied an entire block, Corwin's taxi stopped.
Gerald retained his man and entered the Warrington mansion. A block
farther down Wilshire Boulevard Scanlan's taxi halted, and a half block
behind that Jim Hanvey left his taxi.

Jim, alone of the three, dismissed his driver. And then, slowly and
purposefully, puffing on a cigar, Jim waddled up the street toward
Scanlan's automobile.

"'Lo, Billy!"

"Hello, Jim!"

"Have a good ride?"

"Pretty good."

"Just wanted to let you know I follered you, Billy. All I done it for
was to make sure you was watchin' young Corwin yonder. I'll be trottin'
back to town now." He addressed Scanlan's driver: "Which street car do
I take to get back to town?"

The driver vouchsafed the desired information. Scanlan could not
forbear a question:

"Where's your taxi, Jim?"

"I let it go. Taxis are terribly expensive." And Hanvey moved heavily
away.

Scanlan's vigil continued for more than an hour. Then through the gates
of the Warrington home swung a limousine. It stopped briefly while
Corwin alighted, paid his taxi and then returned to the big car. The
route into the city was more direct this time, and Scanlan followed
Corwin and Colonel Warrington into one of the larger Broadway office
buildings. He saw them enter the offices of a law firm and knew that
Corwin had won the first move of the game by persuading Warrington to
issue his proxy in favor of the McIntosh interests.

From his vantage point in the marbled hallway Scanlan kept watch.
Eventually he saw a young man emerge from the offices of the firm of
lawyers and enter a smaller office down the hall which was marked
"Real Estate & Insurance. Notary Public." A second young man returned
with the first and in his hand was a small notarial seal. It was
obvious to Scanlan that if there was a notary in the law firm he was
out at the moment. Alone again, Scanlan ascertained the name of the
notary--Leopold Jones.

When Warrington and Corwin descended in an elevator a few minutes
later Scanlan did not follow. Instead he produced from his pocket an
income-tax blank and went with it to the office of Leopold Jones. Of
that young gentleman he requested an attestation of his income-tax
return. Mr. Jones found Mr. Scanlan an engaging talker and they chatted
for several minutes. When Mr. Scanlan eventually departed Mr. Jones was
happily unaware of the fact that in Mr. Scanlan's coat pocket reposed
his, Mr. Jones', notarial seal.

From the office building Scanlan visited the city ticket office of the
Santa Fe Railroad. He learned readily enough that Drawing-room A in
Car S-17, California Limited, for Friday morning had been sold the day
previous to a very fat gentleman. He bought Compartment C in the same
car. He returned to the hotel.

Thus far things appeared propitious for Mr. Scanlan.

Jim was a hindrance, of course, and a grave one; but Scanlan operated
on the theory that no vigilance is so keen that it cannot be eluded.
There remained nothing now save the trip east. At some time between the
departure from Los Angeles and the arrival in Chicago it was incumbent
upon Mr. Scanlan to secure from Corwin the Warrington proxy.

That night--Wednesday--the three men dined together, Corwin's distaste
swallowed up by his keening interest in the peculiar friendship
existing between Hanvey and Scanlan. Corwin had always held the idea
that criminals and detectives clashed on sight; that the former were
habitually in flight and the latter constantly in pursuit. To see
them chatting amiably about topics in general, reminiscing over past
escapades of Scanlan and exploits of other criminals and swapping
theories on unsolved crimes was astounding. Corwin found it hard to
reconcile himself to the fact that at the moment the portly detective
and the would-be-gentleman crook were engaged in a battle of wits. He
later discussed the matter with Hanvey.

"Why don't you arrest Scanlan?"

"Arrest him? He ain't done nothin'."

"He's planning to."

"You can't arrest a man for what he's got in his head. If you could the
jails'd be overflowin'."

"You could arrest him for that McCarthy affair I heard him telling you
about. He confesses he was involved in the swindle."

"Aw, you know I wouldn't touch him for that! He just passed that dope
on as a friend."

"But I didn't know that policemen and criminals were friends."

Hanvey smiled wistfully.

"'Bout the only friends I got in this world, son, are crooks. Most of
them are servin' time. Some of 'em I put there. But we're friends. This
here solid-gold watch charm--that was given me by one of the niftiest
con men in the world. I sure hated to send him up."

They checked out of the hotel Friday morning. Billy Scanlan was at
the station when they arrived. The heavy train rumbled under the shed
and they settled themselves for the three-day journey to Chicago. At
Hanvey's invitation Scanlan joined them in the drawing-room and they
became absorbed in a game of setback at half a cent a point.

Hanvey and Scanlan waxed violently enthusiastic over the game----"King
for high." "Trey low?" "Well, dog-gone your ornery hide----" "You're a
rotten setback player, Mr. Corwin; y'oughta learn somethin' 'bout the
fine points of the game."

Nothing to indicate that a crisis was approaching, no outward
manifestation of the drama which was imminent. Occasionally Corwin
reassured himself by touching his coat, in the lining of which was
sewed the envelope containing the proxy which controlled a railroad.
Once Hanvey saw the gesture and he laughed.

"It's safe all right, son. It'll stay safe unless you lose your coat."

Corwin flushed angrily. Hanvey rightly interpreted his anger and
extended a fat and reassuring hand.

"I wasn't giving no dope away. Billy knew where you had the proxy,
didn't you, Billy?"

Scanlan nodded.

"Sure! It's the regular place."

Both men--detective and criminal--were vastly amused by Corwin's
obviousness, and Corwin knew it. But he didn't care. Perhaps the lining
of a coat was the regular place to keep a valuable document; certainly
it was a safe one; and Hanvey might have been more careful than to
remove the last vestige of doubt from Scanlan's mind. Corwin knew that
Scanlan could not possibly get the proxy. Such a thing was impossible
during the day, and at night Corwin planned to use the coat as a pillow.

Following a light breakfast the next morning, Corwin made his way
forward to the club car for a shave. He removed coat, collar and tie,
for the moment unmindful of Scanlan. When the hot towel was removed
from his face and fresh lather applied he noticed Scanlan sitting with
two other men, awaiting his turn for a shave. Next to Scanlan was Jim
Hanvey. Corwin sighed relievedly.

The barber shaved the right side of Corwin's face, then turned him in
the chair to get at the other side. As he did so Scanlan cast a glance
of simulated impatience at the waiting men, rose, donned coat and hat
and left the club car.

But the coat which Scanlan wore on leaving the car was Corwin's!

In five minutes' time he returned. Corwin was just emerging from the
chair. Hanvey was slumped in a corner immersed in the very-female
pictures of a weekly periodical. Scanlan removed Corwin's coat and
extended it to that young gentleman.

"Took your coat by accident, Mr. Corwin. Just discovered my mistake."

Corwin's face blanched. He grabbed the coat and touched the spot where
the proxy had been. For a single wild instant Corwin contemplated
bodily assault, and only the hulking figure of Jim Hanvey and his slow,
drawling voice prevented.

"What's the matter, son? What's the matter? You look all het up."

"This thief----"

"Whoa, son, whoa! That ain't no kind of a name to call a crook."

Corwin whirled on Hanvey.

"You don't know what you're talking about! This man has that proxy! He
just stole it from me!"

Jim was unperturbed. He turned mildly reproving eyes upon the amused
countenance of his friend.

"You didn't go an' do that, did you, Billy?"

Scanlan grinned.

"Mr. Corwin seems to think so."

"Well, I'll be dog-goned! Let's git together an' kinder talk things
over."

Back through the swaying, grinding cars went the procession, Scanlan
leading, Hanvey next and Corwin bringing up the rear. Corwin was in
a cold fury. He felt that he was being made ridiculous--they were
laughing at him. He didn't like the looks of the whole business anyway.
What assurance had he that Hanvey and Scanlan were not confederates?
They were suspiciously intimate, and Hanvey must have seen
Scanlan----In the privacy of their drawing-room Corwin's sinewy figure
towered over Scanlan.

"If you don't give me back that proxy I'll break every bone in your
rotten body."

Jim restrained the young man.

"Them's awful harsh words, Jack Dalton."

Corwin shook him off.

"I think you're as crooked as he is. I've had my suspicions from the
first, and I'm not going to allow any pair like you to make a monkey of
me."

It was Scanlan who spoke.

"Just what are you going to do about it, Mr. Corwin?"

"I'll do a-plenty!"

"Giving me a licking isn't going to get you anywhere except in jail.
We're in New Mexico now; and if you lay a finger on me I'll have you
dumped in the Albuquerque lockup to-night; and you can't do the same to
me, because you haven't got a lick of proof."

"Will you let us search you and your compartment?"

"Surest thing you know!" He turned to the detective. "C'mon, Jim. Get
busy."

Hanvey shrugged and reached for one of his black cigars.

"Ain't gonna waste my time, Billy. If you've got that proxy there ain't
no use of my searchin' for it now. I've just got to think things over
and get a hunch where you put it. Then I'll get it."

"Do you mean," interrogated Corwin furiously, "that you're not even
going to search this man?"

"I do. I mean just that exact thing, son."

"Well, I will!"

Scanlan meekly submitted to the search. Once as Corwin's trembling,
clumsy fingers probed into a pocket he deliberately winked at Hanvey,
and at the conclusion of the personal search Scanlan led the way to his
compartment. Twenty minutes later Corwin, dispirited and dully angry,
returned to the drawing-room, where he found Hanvey gazing stolidly out
of the window. The detective spoke without turning his head.

"When you git peeved, son, you sure git peeved all over."

The younger man did not answer. He slouched opposite and tried to
think, to piece together the ends of this tangled skein. He was
distrustful of every one, particularly of the slothful Hanvey. Jim's
only other remark did not add to his comfort.

"You sure was careless with that coat, Mr. Corwin--awful careless."

Hanvey was right. He had been careless, inexcusably so. True, there had
been a feeling of safety in the knowledge that Hanvey was also in the
barber shop; but there was small solace in the thought that it wasn't
entirely his fault that too great confidence had been placed by his
employer in Hanvey's ability. And now, should Hanvey fail to recover
the proxy, he--Corwin--was ruined, a brilliant career abruptly and
ignominiously terminated.

Meanwhile, in Compartment C, behind a locked door, Scanlan was busy.
He obtained a table from the porter and then proceeded to open his
suitcase, to unpack it, to remove a false bottom and extract from the
space disclosed a sheaf of legal-appearing documents. Each of these was
strikingly similar to the proxy which lay beside them on the table.

Then slowly and painstakingly Scanlan prepared a duplicate proxy,
being very careful that his forging of Colonel Warrington's name
should be patently a forgery. The finished job was a masterpiece. No
one unfamiliar with Warrington's signature could guess that this was
not genuine, yet a comparison left no room for doubt that Scanlan's
work was a forgery. Carefully he inscribed the attestation, affixing
thereto the impress of the notarial seal he had stolen from the
office of Mr. Leopold Jones. That done, he viewed his handiwork with
pardonable pride. He next destroyed the other blank proxies which had
been prepared by the Quincy-Scott crowd in New York, placed the forged
proxy in the false bottom of his suitcase and put the genuine proxy in
an outside pocket of his coat.

At lunch time Scanlan found Hanvey sitting alone at one end of the
diner while Corwin sulked at the other. The crook paused by the
detective's table and cheerfully accepted Hanvey's invitation to join.
Jim nodded toward the tragic figure at the other end of the car.

"You sure have played tarnation thunder with that kid, Billy."

Scanlan shook his head. Naturally tender-hearted, he was genuinely
regretful.

"Business is business, Jim."

"Yep, so it is. Kinda tough on the kid, though. He feels bad, knowin'
he played right into your hands. An' I ain't feelin' any too spry
myself." The detective's dull eyes turned toward his companion and
blinked slowly. "Where have you got that proxy, Billy?"

Scanlan laughed.

"I haven't admitted that I have it."

"No-o. An' I didn't ask you to admit nothin'. The point bein' that you
can't get away with it, kid. I'll have you held when we get to Chicago
and search you--a search that is a search."

Scanlan registered apprehension.

"That ain't fair, Jim. You ain't got a lick of proof that I have the
proxy."

"Nope. But I intend to get it."

From the diner Scanlan went back to the observation platform to think
things over. He did not relish the prospect of an additional thirty-six
hours on the same car with Hanvey. He contemplated dropping off at
Albuquerque, then thought better of it. Jim would merely remain with
him. And then an idea came.

At eight o'clock the train pulled into the handsome station at the
capital of New Mexico for a one-hour layover. Scanlan walked swiftly up
the street toward the post office. There he prevailed upon a registry
clerk to accept a letter. In a long envelope he inclosed a note to
Phares Scott and with it the proxy he had that day stolen from Gerald
Corwin. He sent the document both special delivery and registered. It
would get to New York a day or two late, perhaps, but still in ample
time for the meeting. Besides, it was not essential that it get there
at all. It was only necessary that the McIntosh forces be deprived of
its possession.

Scanlan would have destroyed the thing in preference, but he knew that
he would have difficulty in collecting his fee unless the document
itself was produced.

But even though Billy Scanlan had left the train at Albuquerque, Hanvey
and Corwin had not. Hanvey, making quite sure that Scanlan had gone,
entered Scanlan's compartment in Corwin's company. The manner of the
big detective had momentarily lost its sluggishness. He questioned
Corwin.

"Where'd you search?"

Corwin told him. Jim shook his massive head.

"How 'bout his suitcase?"

"I looked in there, of course."

"Sure--of course you did, son. Naturally. But let us try it again."

Jim dumped the contents unceremoniously on the seat. With deft fingers
he went through every garment and even inspected the contents of the
rolled traveling case.

"You see," commented Corwin resentfully. "I told you nothing was there."

Hanvey paid him no heed. He had closed the suitcase and was inspecting
it carefully. Then suddenly he turned it over and thumped it with a
heavy, spatulate finger. His pursy lips creased into a smile.

"Think we got somethin', son."

"What?"

"We'll see."

The suitcase was reopened and Hanvey fumbled inside for a moment. Then
a button unfastened here and one there and he removed the false bottom.
He extended the envelope to Corwin.

"Better see that he don't get another chance at it, son."

With fingers that trembled the younger man spread open the forged
proxy, never questioning its genuineness. There it was--Warrington's
signature, Jones' attestation, the notarial seal. Corwin seized Jim's
hand and wrung it gratefully. His voice was choky.

"I've been a rotter, Mr. Hanvey. I suspected you of being a
confederate----"

"'Sall right, Mr. Corwin. 'Sall right. Don't slop over."

"I can't help it. I feel like a cur."

"Gwan!" Hanvey was touched by the boyish gratitude of his young friend.
"Let's get this stuff back in here. Scanlan'll spot that we have the
thing, but it wouldn't be decent to leave his stuff all spread out like
this."

Ten minutes before leaving time Scanlan returned to his compartment.
He opened his suitcase, discerned the disorder--and grinned. Then,
pretending disappointment and fury, he rapped on the door of
Drawing-room A. Inside he faced Corwin.

"You wanted to start something a little while ago, Mr. Corwin," he
snapped, "when you thought I copped a paper from your coat. Well, I'm
here to say that whenever you're ready you just wade right in, because,
no matter what I've done, I never robbed a gent's suitcase."

A hard, chill smile appeared on Corwin's lips. He rose slowly. From the
window seat Hanvey viewed the tableau amusedly.

"Get out!" ordered Corwin.

"Put me out!"

"Get out or I shall!"

Scanlan's eyes met those of the other man, and Scanlan discreetly
withdrew.

But that night Scanlan lay in his berth, smoking and smiling. Success
had blessed his strategy. The Warrington proxy was en route to New York
by registered mail, the envelope specifically marked "For Delivery to
Addressee Only." Better still, Jim Hanvey thought he had recovered the
document. There was the strongest point in Scanlan's favor--the fact
that Jim was smugly contented. Now all he had to do was to assume the
attitude of a man thwarted. He was a trifle sorry for poor old Jim,
yet it was no lack of acumen on Jim's part, but rather a superlative
cunning on his own.

During the final twenty-four hours of the journey to Chicago, Gerald
Corwin clung to the supposed proxy with a pitiful grimness. Alone with
Hanvey in their drawing-room, he sat with his hand against the pocket
of his coat. He shaved himself. He slept with the coat for a pillow.

"He got it once," he explained to Hanvey. "He won't again."

Jim smiled.

"Once ought to be enough for any man."

"What made you think of a false bottom to that suitcase, Mr. Hanvey?"

"Same thing that made Billy think of the lining of your coat. Plumb
obvious. Gosh! I'll bet Billy's ravin'."

Corwin was frankly admiring.

"And I thought you were no good! I even thought you might be
double-crossing McIntosh!"

"That's right, son; that's right. Never trust nobody an' you'll never
get a shock. That's my motto. The honester a person is supposed to be
the easier he can crook you."

They reached Chicago at noon of the following day. Hanvey and Corwin
boarded the Pennsylvania for New York. Scanlan secured a berth on
the New York Central. Freed from the Scanlan menace, Corwin thawed
slightly and attempted to make late amends to his benefactor. He even
summoned sufficient courage to request a closer inspection of Jim's
gold toothpick and to say complimentary things about the fearful weapon
which had been anathema to him. Jim bloomed under the praise of his
decoration.

"Feller that gave me that had sense," he said earnestly. "It ain't only
beautiful--it's useful."

Corwin repressed a shudder.

"I suppose it is."

The gratitude of the younger man was pathetic. He grimly determined to
invite Jim to dinner some night--the ultimate test of his fortitude.

They reached New York on time and repaired immediately to the offices
of the K. R. & P. There Gerald Corwin delivered over to Garet McIntosh
the Warrington proxy. McIntosh congratulated the young man and assured
him of the directors' appreciation. But before leaving the room Corwin
made a straight-eyed confession.

"You must thank Mr. Hanvey," he said. "The proxy was stolen from me on
the train and Mr. Hanvey recovered it."

"Good!" McIntosh dismissed Corwin with a nod and reached for his
notebook. "How about it, Hanvey?"

Jim grinned. "Don't listen to nothin' the kid says, Mr. McIntosh. He's
game all through, that lad. But it was funny."

At that moment Billy Scanlan faced Phares Scott and gave a detailed
report of the success of his mission. A gleam of admiration appeared in
the steely eyes of the financier.

"Good work!" he commented briefly. "You'll get your pay when the proxy
arrives."

The following day at noon, Scanlan presented himself at Scott's office.
His reward was paid in legal tender----"To avoid the embarrassment of a
check." Scanlan nodded and pocketed the money.

"The proxy?" he questioned.

"We've destroyed it. Simply wanted to look it over to make sure we were
safe."

That night Billy Scanlan celebrated. The following morning he awakened
with a violent headache, and was aroused by a ringing of his telephone.

"Jim Hanvey," announced the slow, drawling voice on the other end. "Can
I come up?"

Jim came. He regarded Scanlan interestedly.

"I judge they paid you off all right," he commented.

"They did," admitted Scanlan. "What about it?"

"Nothin'; nothin' in particular." Hanvey glanced at his watch, a
tremendous affair, gaudily engraved. "Only that the stockholders'
meetin' takes place in just about one hour, an' as a friend I advise
you to beat it an' beat it quick."

Scanlan sat upright, hands pressed against his throbbing forehead.

"Me beat it?"

"Uh-huh."

"What for?"

"Takin' pay from the Quincy-Scott crowd for somethin' you didn't do.
They're li'ble to get awful sore."

"What are you talking about, Jim? You know good and well I got away
with it."

Hanvey shook his head. "Nothin' of the kind, Billy; an' I'm advisin'
you as a friend to beat it--an' stay put."

The eyes of the other man narrowed.

"You must be gettin' into your second childhood, Jim. Do you mean to
tell me that you haven't yet found out that the proxy you stole from my
suitcase was a fake?"

Hanvey's voice was quite matter of fact.

"Oh, that? Sure, I knew all the time that was a fake."

"Well, then----"

"What you ain't never stopped to realize," explained the detective, "is
this: The proxy you swiped from young Corwin wasn't no good either."

Scanlan rose abruptly.

"What do you mean--no good? Old man Warrington executed it----"

"Sure he did! An' the next day he executed another to McIntosh. That
second one was the only one worth the paper it was written on. It
nullified the first, an' I had it in my pocket all the time. An' when
that real proxy appears at the meetin' to-day the gang you were workin'
for is li'ble to get all het up. You see, Billy, you and Corwin both
had the wrong dope. I wasn't on that train to keep you from gettin'
that proxy off Corwin; I was there to see you did get it so you
wouldn't bother me none, me bein' the real messenger."

Headache forgotten, Billy Scanlan leaped for his suitcase and commenced
a frenzy of packing.

"I might've known you were too easy, Jim! I might've known it! Anyway,
they paid me off yesterday----"

"That's what tickles me," replied Jim; "you gittin' paid for that
proxy. It's a swell joke on them fellers. An' say, I got somethin' to
show you. You know young Corwin was awful grateful for what I done."

"He should have been."

"He was. He sent me a present this morning. Ain't it swell?"

And beaming with pride Hanvey exhibited the gift of the fastidious
Gerald Corwin.

It was a gold-handled toothbrush.




                         HELEN OF TROY, N. Y.


The first summer blast of a Southern spring-time failed to inspire Jim
Hanvey to hallelujahs. The mammoth detective lounged uncomfortably in
his tiny apartment, cursing the unkind fates which had first been too
liberal in their apportionment of avoirdupois and then caused him to be
temporarily located in that section of the country where the intense
heat makes for healthy cotton and lethargic humanity.

Southern spring is a season of constant doubt and surprise. One goes
to bed innocent of sheets and arises shiveringly at three in the
morning to resurrect blankets from a moth-ball depository. Overcoats
are one day in order, and on the next palm-beach suits are inspected
longingly. On Wednesday the fresh young leaves will struggle against
the near-frost of the previous night, and on Thursday wilt before the
ravages of unseasonable heat. Winter does not merge gently into summer.
The thermometer fluctuates uncertainly like a woman torn between the
competitive allure of two bargain counters.

To-day it was hot, genuinely and unreservedly hot, and Jim's physique
had never been intended to withstand heat. He slumped miserably in a
wicker chair, puffing disconsolately upon a cigar and staring with
fixed distaste at the weather forecast: "Clear. Continued warm."

A profound sigh escaped from the recesses of Jim Hanvey. "O death,
where is thy heat?"

Jim was capable of intense feeling, and this day that capability was
working overtime. He was utterly and supremely unhappy both as to the
present and in contemplation of the future. If this was April, what,
then, would July be?

He scarcely heard the clangor of his telephone, and only when that
instrument had sent its raucous summons dinning into his ears for the
third time did he conscript sufficient energy to hoist himself from the
wicker chair. His voice was not at all friendly.

"'Lo!"

"Hello!" A queer, interested expression flitted over Jim's features.
Woman's voice. Hmph! "Is that Mr. Hanvey?"

"Almost."

"This is a friend of yours, Jim."

"Ain't got any friends to-day. Too hot."

"I'm coming up."

"That's fine. Apartment 4-B. Door's unlocked. Walk right in."

"Good!"

"And, say?"

"Yes?"

"Don't expect me to get up. When the mercury climbs this high I stay
put."

He recrossed the room and slumped down into his chair again; but no
longer did his face reflect the misery of the flesh.

His florid countenance was wrinkled speculatively. The voice of the
woman had been vaguely familiar; memory probed inquisitively into the
past. Jim shook his tremendous head from side to side.

"She called me Jim an' said she was a friend of mine."

Pudgy fingers toyed idly with the hawserlike watch chain connecting his
timepiece and himself.

The front door opened. Footsteps sounded from the hallway. All outward
indication of interest fled from Jim's face leaving it as expressionful
as the visage of a cow at milking time. Then the woman appeared in
the doorway, and instantly Jim recognized her. The heartiness of his
greeting was thoroughly sincere.

"Helen of Troy." He smiled and added, "New York."

The woman swept across the room and pressed a light kiss on the
forehead of the detective.

"Dear old Jim! It's good to see you again."

"Yeh, ain't it? Lord! I'm hot." Jim's eyelids drooped with exasperating
slowness over his fishy orbs, held shut for a moment, then opened
again. "Step over yonder, Helen. Lemme give you the once-over."

The woman obeyed, and Jim nodded approvingly.

"Million dollars--plus, Helen. That's you."

She was far from unattractive as she stood by the window. True, she was
not of the general type which inspires the plaudits of a connoisseur;
but for all practical purposes she was there seven ways from the ace.
In the first place she was blond--magnificently and unyieldingly blond
from the shrieking crown of gold upon her head to the tips of her long,
slender, dead-white fingers. She was amply supplied with a figure which
had been apportioned liberally and with an eye to ensemble rather than
lissomeness. The effect was not to be denied: Floppy white panama with
orchid trimmings; an elaborate street dress of white and orchid crêpe
de chine; orchid stockings of chiffon, and white shoes. She pridefully
submitted to his inspection and thrilled to his comment.

Said he, "Once seen, never forgotten."

"You think I'm looking well, Jim?"

"Terrible good. Terrible." He mopped his forehead. "How do you stand
this heat?"

She laughed.

"We've lived South ever since we were married. That's six years."

"And three months," he amplified. "Ever since Johnny finished that last
stretch. Me, I'd just as lief be in stir. Sit down. How's Johnny?"

The woman's face clouded slightly.

"It's about him I came to see you, Jim."

"Much obliged to Johnny." He relighted his cigar. "What's he doin' now?
Con?"

She shook her head.

"We've been straight ever since we hitched up. You ought to know that,
Jim."

"Ought to. Just thought maybe he was keepin' away from my line. I'm
with the Bankers' Protective now, you know."

"I know it; that's why I came to you."

He stretched out.

"Spill it, Helen. I'm all ears--all ears and perspiration, I mean."

"You've always been a friend of ours, Jim. You play square. You sent
Johnny up once, but he didn't hold that against you; it was all his
fault for gettin' caught. And he made a regular killin' that time,
Jim--you remember they never did get the stuff. Well, when he got out
we decided to get married and go straight. Of course we didn't know how
we'd like it, but we did think it was worth trying--understand?"

"Sure! Novelty. Any time you didn't like it you could turn crooked
again."

"That's it. Well, I've liked it, an' so has Johnny. No dicks worryin'
us, everything running smooth. It's been a real nice experience, Jim.
I never would have believed there was so much fun in bein' honest. And
after a while--well, it sort of gets to be a habit. Now I've come to
the point where I wouldn't change for anything."

She paused. He blinked with disconcerting slowness.

"Well?"

She leaned forward tensely.

"Johnny's planning to pull a job!"

"Huh?"

"Johnny's planning to pull another job. He's got a chance for a neat
killing, and he's going to try it."

Jim's head rolled sorrowfully upon his fat shoulders.

"That's too dog-goned bad! After runnin' straight this long!"

"It is too bad, Jim. That's why I've come to you."

"What's why?"

"I want you to keep him straight. I know I can trust you, so I'm going
to slip you the whole works, and I want you to steer him off. There
ain't a bit of sense to his going crooked again. We've got all the
money we need; but the thing looks so easy--you know how it is."

"Uh-huh. I know. What you expect me to do?"

"The job he's planning, Jim, is a bank job. That would bring you into
it."

Jim's lips drew into a protuberant circle and a low whistle escaped.

"Bank job, eh? His old line. That's plumb silly."

"I've told him so; told him a dozen times. But he says it's a cinch.
Sure thing. Bah!"--bitterly. "It's a sure thing he wouldn't get away
with it."

"But he thinks he can."

"That's it. I know just how he feels, Jim. I've felt that way myself
a dozen times when I've seen some dame out at the race track wearing
a million dollars' worth of sparklers. I'd remember how good I used
to be at that sort of thing and my fingers would just naturally itch.
It seemed a shame to pass it up. But"--righteously--"I've given
temptation the go-by, Jim. I haven't pulled a job since I got hitched
up to Johnny, though I've had chances enough. You always have when
you're running straight. Sometimes I've felt like I'd give everything I
had just for the sport of reducing the weight of some fat dame to the
extent of a coupla carats. Well, the bug's got Johnny now. Things have
played into his hands and he's rarin' to go. I told him you was down in
this part of the country, but he only laughed. 'Reckon I can get away
with this in spite of Jim Hanvey,' he said. The poor fish! You know
good and well, Jim, there ain't any crook can buck you and get away
with it, is there?"

Jim grinned.

"What you tryin' to do--vamp me?"

"Lord forbid! It would be too much trouble for the result."

"That sounds more like my frank friend. Now please continue to go on."

"I'm going to give you a straight steer on this job of Johnny's. I
want to leave it all in your hands. You ought to be able to head him
off. I know I'm foolish to be so dead set on honesty and all that sort
of romantic stuff, but I can't help it. Reckon I've been seeing too
many movies or something." She leaned forward tensely, giving off an
aroma of heavy and expensive perfumes, her fingers glittering with an
imposing array of rings. "I want to stay straight, Jim--I sure do! And
I want Johnny to do likewise."

Jim reached for a fresh cigar and settled back comfortably in his chair.

"You don't mind these, do you, Helen?"

"We-e-ll, I haven't any right to kick when I'm asking you a favor."

"Thanks."

He snipped off the end of the cigar and lighted up with gusto.

"Since Johnny turned straight he's been gambling," she explained.
"No rough stuff, nor nothing like that. Of course I'm not claiming
that he hasn't rung in the works once in a while when he's hooked a
particularly easy mark or that maybe he hasn't managed to read the
backs of a few cards; but that's all part of the profession. The point
is he hasn't been crooked--understand?"

"Sure! I get you."

"Last two seasons he's been oralizing down in New Orleans--both tracks
there: Fair Grounds and Jefferson Parish. Business has been pretty
good, but nothing extra. New Orleans is a wise town on horses. They're
the very devil on backing the favorites and that's awful tough on the
bookies. Anyway racing has kinder got into Johnny's blood. He started
off last year by buying a few cheap platers--called himself owning
a stable. And finally he come into a two-year-old that is a colt.
Lightning Bolt is the name. Y'oughter see that angel run!

"Major Torrance clocked that baby one time in a workout and wanted
him; wanted him bad. Johnny didn't hanker to let him go. They talked
price, but nothing come of it. Everybody knew the old gent was nuts on
Lightning Bolt and was gonna get him sooner or later--everybody except
him. And just recently Johnny found out that the major had booked
passage for Europe on the Homeric, sailing out of New York day after
to-morrow--Thursday. Also that Torrance's stable was bein' shipped
North for the New York season. And that's where Johnny fell."

She paused, one white-shod foot tapping the floor. Jim sat in supine
silence, apparently oblivious of her presence.

"Yes," she continued tensely, "that's where Johnny took his tumble. He
told the major he'd sell Lightning Bolt, provided the old geezer would
buy all the rest of his stable--four other horses. The price for the
bunch was eight thousand dollars. The deal went through. Those horses
went North with the Torrance stable the other day when the season ended
in New Orleans. Old man Torrance sails from New York in a couple of
days. Of course you can prove up on all of this; the real point being
that Johnny holds the major's check for eight thousand dollars."

Her voice died away. Out of the silence which followed came Jim's
drawling voice:

"An' one little teeny letter added onto an eight makes an eighty."

The luxurious blonde glanced sharply at the big man in the wicker
chair, her eyes narrowing slightly.

"What made you think----"

"Two an' two always did make four, sister."

Her fingers interlaced nervously.

"That's the layout, Jim. He's planning to raise that check and make a
get-away----" Her voice trailed off. "And that isn't all."

"No?"

Jim's query was a mere indication of interest rather than an effort to
extract further information.

"Not all, Jim. It's this way----" She hitched her chair closer and
laid one ringed hand on Jim's knee. The ponderous man seemed unmindful
of it--for a moment. Then he moved away. "Just before Johnny turned
straight and married me he pulled one last big job. It was regular and
all that. The poor sucker they caught was hog-tied; he didn't dare let
out a yap. Johnny made a clean-up on it and with that amount added to
what he had he retired with about a quarter of a million bucks." There
was conscious pride in her final declaration: "Johnny never was a
piker."

"He sure wasn't, Helen. Great chap, Johnny."

"That quarter of a million has been salted away in Liberty Bonds.
Johnny bought 'em at about 84 and they're pretty near par now.
He's dead stuck on 'em; says when they jumped in value it was the
first honest money he ever made. He never would touch 'em. Kind of
superstitious. But, Jim, he's planning to dig into 'em now."

"Yeh?"

"He's got a chance of opening a big gambling place down near Juarez.
Things like that take cash--a wad of it. So Johnny is fixing to borrow
on his Liberties."

"Borrow?"

"Yes. He's superstitious about them, like I told you, and he don't want
to sell. He figures he can borrow two hundred thousand on the things.
Then he's going to raise that Torrance check from eight thousand to
eighty. That'll give him $280,000 in cash--more than enough for what he
wants. He'll sink a heap of that into the business, and at the first
opportunity he plans to come back, redeem his Liberties and salt 'em
away again. Understand?"

Hanvey was apparently not listening. He stared moodily through the
window, lower jaw drooping, the ash on his cigar perilously lengthy.
Finally he turned his glassy eyes upon her.

"How c'n you look so cool when it's so durned hot?"

She bit her lip.

"Do you understand, Jim?"

"Eh?" He blinked with interminable slowness. "Oh, about Johnny an' his
gamblin' house an' the Liberty Bonds an' all that? Sure, that's easy.
Johnny's just naturally plannin' to get wicked again, ain't he?"

"And I don't want him to. There ain't anything in the world like being
honest, Jim; I've found that out. It's the grandest feeling I've ever
had. I wouldn't turn crooked again for anything in the world--unless
we really needed the money. I don't want Johnny to. He's been out of
the game so long he's liable to pull a boner and lose what he's got."

"You sure spoke a mouthful then, sister. That's a downright crude stunt
Johnny is figgerin' on pullin'. Of course, him plannin' to beat it into
Mexico, anyway----"

"I'd hate to live there. Never did like Mexican cooking--chili an' hot
tamales and all that sort of thing. And the climate----"

"Hotter'n this, ain't it?"

She didn't answer. For a few moments silence held between them, tense
silence punctured only by the ticking of the cheap alarm clock on the
mantel and the bellowing of a group of boys playing in the street below.

"You've got to help me, Jim--got to help me keep Johnny straight. He'll
listen to you where he laughs at me."

"Awful glad to do a little job like that, Helen. I'm real anxious
Johnny shouldn't turn crooked again. He's got brains enough to make an
honest livin'. Lemme see--when's he plannin' to pass this bum check?"

"Two or three days. You see, Jim, he'll borrow the two hundred thousand
on his bonds--borrow it from a local banking house--Starnes & Company.
When he deposits their check for that amount he'll deposit along with
it Major Torrance's check for eighty thousand; and the eighty-thousand
one being so much smaller than the other, they won't pay a whole lot
of attention to it. Then he'll check against the total sum. Ain't that
clever?"

"Awful!" He inhaled deeply. "Awful clever! A good check for two hundred
thousand and a bum one for eighty, passed right through the bank. Then
he checks against 'em. Johnny sure uses his head for somethin' more
than a hatrack."

She rose and threw a light scarf across her plump shoulders.

"You promise to keep him straight, Jim? You promise?"

"Sure! Sure I promise, Helen! Dog-gone this weather!"

She made her adieus and swung down the street toward the city's largest
hotel. One or two traveling men ogled her and she expanded to the
pleased consciousness of the effect she was creating. It had always
been thus, ever since her girlhood in Troy, New York. Blessed with
voluptuous blondness, men had always flocked about her. Adulation had
been all in all to her until the advent of Johnny Norton, and to him
she capitulated utterly.

Johnny had been an honest and efficient wooer. They teamed up and
knocked about the country until he made his final big killing. Then
they married and turned straight; but the strain of the past five years
had been terrific.

Helen rapped on the door of her room and Johnny opened it in person.
He was a small man, slender and wiry and very much of a dandy in
his lavender silk shirt, his white sport shoes and his aggressively
checkered suit. He kissed her dutifully, then stepped back, twisting
his near-mustache.

Three other men lounged about the room. There was Slim Bolton, a card
sharper, whose practice had been largely confined to transatlantic
liners; Happy Gorman, who had attained fame--and a jail sentence--by
means of an astoundingly clever oil-stock swindle; and Connie Hawes,
one-time counterfeiter and generally expert flimflam artist. Their
eyes were focused interestedly upon the Junoesque figure of the woman
who stood with her back against the door, enjoying to the ultimate her
calcium moment.

"Well," she announced pridefully, "Jim Hanvey fell for it!"

There was a moment of tense silence.

At last, Johnny Norton pulling nervously at his mustache, voiced the
question which was uppermost in the minds of all of them:

"You sure?"

"Positive! You know how it is, boys. Jim has got only one weakness
and that's his heart. It's softer than mush. He fell for that
going-straight stuff like a tabby for a fresh box of catnip. Honest, it
was a shame to take the money."

Johnny grinned.

"He promised to keep me straight?"

"Yeh. Reckon it was the first time poor old Jim was ever asked to do
anything like that." Her face clouded. "I sort of hate to put it over
on him this way. I'm awful strong for Jim."

"So are all of us." It was Connie Hawes speaking. "But what could we do
about it? It was a cinch we'd have trouble with Jim, so the best thing
was to throw him off the track."

Slim Bolton rose and walked to the window. He spoke without turning.

"Reckon this stuff ain't exactly in my line," he commented; "but I
never did understand the reason for wising Jim up. I'm not saying
you fellows are wrong, but it looks to me like we are running an
unnecessary chance."

Johnny Norton made no attempt to conceal his contempt for the slender
one.

"If you had more than one brain in your head, Slim, they wouldn't have
barred you from the steamships. The reason Jim had to know it was
this: He's chief of the detective force of the Bankers' Protective
Association. Bein' down in this part of the country, it was a dead
cinch he'd be called in the minute anything irregular happened."

"But nothing irregular----"

"Nothing irregular me eye! I borrow two hundred thousand dollars on
a quarter million dollars' worth of Liberty Bonds. The banking house
sends 'em over to the bank by messenger for rediscount. You fellows
bump the messenger and make a get-away with the bonds. Bond robbery
from a banking house which is a member of the Bankers' Protective. Jim
Hanvey is called in of course, and first thing he asks is where did
they get the Liberty Bonds. And when they tell him that a gent named
John Roden Norton borrowed the money he would be most likely to smell a
mice; even two or three mices."

"But when this happens----"

"Pff! You fellows are gonna lay low. And Jim already knows all about
my borrowing the two hundred thou. He even knows about the Juarez
proposition, and at the very moment you fellows are grabbing off the
bonds I'll be with Jim Hanvey. Get that? He not only is gonna be set
easy on borrowing the coin, but he's also gonna be right with me when
the fireworks are being shot. What's the result? I've got a clean slate
with Jim. I even let him induce me not to raise Torrance's check--swell
chance I'd have raisin' that bird's paper--and so Jim will be lovin'
me real sweet and you guys will be beatin' it to the border with
them quarter million dollars in bonds. You fellers will cash 'em in
somewheres----"

"How about the numbers? They ain't registered bonds, I know, but the
minute that many are stolen the banking house will notify the B. P. A.
to watch out----"

Helen of Troy had been too long in the background. She didn't like
it. All her life she had been accustomed to having men stare at her
and hang upon her words, and so now she took the floor again and gave
explanation to Slim Bolton, who had but recently been impressed into
service as the necessary fifth member of the party.

"I and Happy worked out that game," she explained. "Happy is awful keen
on stocks and bonds and things like that, so he knew that we'd have to
watch out for those numbers. So what we'll do is this: Johnny, here,
has already made arrangements for the loan--told the banking house just
what he wants the money for--and on Thursday he's to swap the bonds and
his note for the cash. He's due to be on hand at eleven o'clock in the
morning, but he ain't gonna be. He's gonna get there about half-past
one, the banks in this burg closin' up at two o'clock. He'll hand over
the bonds to the president of the banking house and that bird will
check over the bond numbers with Johnny, Johnny having them written
down formal-like on a piece of paper.

"And here's the point, Slim: The numbers that Johnny reads out will be
the numbers of the bonds all right, but the numbers he reads won't be
the numbers that are written down on this slip of paper.

"Minute he does that he's gonna ask the banker to give him the check
quick so he can deposit before the bank closes, with the result that
the banker will accept that list and will give Johnny's slip to the
bookkeeper for entering in the journal. In other words, the numbers
that they'll enter up won't be the numbers of the bonds at all, and
there won't be any check when you get away with 'em. Chances are the
banking house has already made arrangements to rediscount at one of
the big banks, and they'll be anxious to shoot the collateral right
around there; so the whole thing will slip through real pretty."

"And if it don't?" questioned the pessimistic Slim.

She stamped her foot irritably.

"Then it'll simply be a harder matter to dispose of the bonds. They're
in thousand-dollar denominations, and it would take time, but not be
dangerous. Anyway you boys are to cash in as soon as you can, shoot the
two hundred thousand back to Johnny and then Johnny redeems his bonds
and hikes down there to join you. We can't lose."

"Us fellers do the rough work," commented Connie Hawes. "That ain't
ever been exactly in my line."

"I'm putting up the kale, ain't I?" queried Johnny. "That ought to
count some."

"It does. But----"

"But nothing!" snapped Helen of Troy. "The way you boys talk about
flunking this thing you almost make me ashamed of being a crook."

Meanwhile, in the very limited confines of his room, Jim Hanvey
had been doing considerable thinking. He sat as Helen had left
him, overflowing the old wicker chair, puffing solemnly upon the
long-extinguished stump of his cigar, fat fingers fiddling with his
watch chain.

Jim was interested; so interested that for a few moments he almost
forgot the intense heat. He had been asked to keep a crook on the
straight and narrow.

"Gee! Johnny was a good workman in his day. Funny what wimmin will do
to a guy."

He was surprised that Johnny had remained straight for this length of
time. He didn't blame the lad, of course--was sincerely glad that he
had done so. Helen was a woman in a million, just such a one as Jim
secretly craved for a wife. She was comfortably large and full-blooded
and richly blond. "And wise. I'd hate to be married to a boneheaded
dame." He lighted his cigar stump absently. "Swell-lookin' frail like
her could almost make me turn crooked. No wonder she's kept Johnny
straight."

More peculiar than that, however, Jim reflected, was the fact that
Helen herself had forsaken the rose path. She had been a clever dip in
her day--none superior--and a smooth worker in other lines. He recalled
the Starkman blackmail scheme; they'd never been able to hang a thing
on Helen for that--or Johnny either. Old Starkman's lips had been
tightly sealed, and not through indifference to money.

"That bimbo didn't love a dollar no more than he did his last pair of
pants. Helen sure had him dead to rights, someway."

Here was Helen going straight and coming to him for assistance that her
husband might not step from the road of rectitude. Jim's massive head
rolled heavily from side to side in wonderment.

He spent the evening at a movie, finding himself aroused to spontaneous
applause at that portion of the picture which disclosed the husband
returning home just in time to prevent the elopement of his wife and
the chauffeur, the latter having turned out to be an old lover in
disguise. There was a saccharine scene which resulted in a dramatic
choice between the men, the woman designating her preference by nearly
strangling her husband while that gentleman beamed happily upon the
discomfited lover as he slunk miserably away, presumably to another
household where, perchance, the husband might not return home thus
inopportunely.

Scenes of that sort were vastly impressive to Jim. He hated bad
sportsmanship, and the villain-chauffeur in this picture had been a bad
sport. Crookedness Jim loved. He admired a clever crook and worshiped
a good woman. There was something massively pitiful about the man as
he gazed raptly upon the silver screen in the picture show; something
inexpressibly sad in his demeanor, his abject loneliness. Jim himself
would have been the last person in the world to realize the void in
his life. Keen as he was in analysis of others, he was no master of
introspection. When he emerged from the picture theater it was in the
grip of a warm, sentimental glow. His simple, direct nature had been
stirred to the roots. At that moment he desired nothing in life so much
as to insure Helen the retention of that happiness which a few brief
years of honest living had brought to her.

The following morning--Wednesday--he visited the banking house
of Starnes & Company, where Johnny's loan was in the process of
negotiation. He discovered that Joseph P. Starnes, the president, was
handling the matter personally and that Johnny had explained frankly
to Mr. Starnes the use to which the money was to be put.

"It is no concern of mine," explained Mr. Starnes crisply, "what Mr.
Norton does with that money. As a matter of fact, it has been my
experience that a professional gambler is highly trustworthy. In the
second place there is always the chance that his venture will prove
unprofitable, in which case I shall have recourse to my collateral. It
is excellent collateral, Mr. Hanvey; as good as money. This house is
safe--entirely and thoroughly safe."

"H'm! Guess you're about right, Mr. Starnes. Just wanted to know if you
was wise to what this bird wanted the money for."

"Of course I am." Mr. Starnes' manner was curt. He had an instinctive
antipathy to this hulking representative of the Bankers' Protective
Association; had more than once seriously considered suggesting to that
organization that the man was mentally unfitted for the responsibility
of his position.

"And if I were not it would make no difference. Liberty Bonds form
security which we cannot question."

Jim rose.

"I ain't gonna argue about it."

"There's nothing to argue."

"Certainly not. Of course there ain't. That's why I ain't gonna argue
about it."

That evening Jim dropped in at the hotel where Johnny and Helen were
registered. He telephoned to their room and was bidden to come up.
His call abruptly terminated a hectic pinochle game then in progress,
leaving Happy Gorman a heavy and disgruntled loser. When Jim entered
the room he discovered Johnny playing solitaire and Helen seated by the
window, reading a fashion magazine. A significant glance passed between
the portly detective and the lavishly blond woman. Johnny rose at sight
and posed for a moment with one hand gripping the card table, a slight
frown showing.

"'Lo, Jim."

Johnny was a most excellent actor. Apparently he was enormously
surprised at the presence of the Gargantuan gentleman who bulked in the
doorway. It was Jim who punctured the silence:

"Ain't you glad to see me, Johnny?"

"Why shouldn't I be?"

"I'll bite. Why?"

"If you think you've got anything on me----"

"Aw, g'wan, Johnny! You know durn well that I know you've been goin'
straight since you and Helen got hitched up. Just heard you were in
town an' dropped in for a social chat."

Norton appeared relieved. He heaved an impressive sigh and motioned his
visitor to a chair.

As though for the first time, Jim took notice of Helen. He held her two
hands in his and stared approvingly.

"Helen of Troy! By gosh, Helen, you're prettier than ever! You've put
on flesh, but you've been careful where you put it."

"That's all that counts, isn't it?"

"Yep. Some wimmin are downright careless. How're you an' Johnny gettin'
along?"

"Mighty well."

"Who you doin' for a livin'?"

"The public. Johnny's been makin' a book down in New Orleans. It's a
lot of work and a heap of expense, but we've managed to make ends meet."

Jim eyed the cards longingly.

"How 'bout a little three-handed game of setback?"

Chairs were drawn up. They played for a cent a point. It was midnight
when Jim paid his losses--eighty-one cents--and rose to go.

"This is the life," he commented heartily. Then his face grew serious.
"Keep it up, Johnny. There's nothin' to this crooked stuff."

"I know that, Jim," returned Norton fervently. "I'm off it."

The door closed behind the detective. Assured that he had departed,
Johnny crossed the room, took his wife in his arms and implanted a
smacking kiss upon her willing lips.

"Hook, line and sinker!"

"It is a dirty shame to take him in that way."

"Sure! But it's him or us, and there ain't any use of it being us.
We'll be on Easy Street when this deal is finished."

They slept but lightly that night. The following morning early there
was an executive session in Johnny's room. Slim Bolton was there,
pessimistic as ever; Happy Gorman, melancholy but game; Connie Hawes,
steely-eyed and emotionless.

"There's nothing to worry about," reassured Johnny. "Everything's
chicken."

"For you--yes."

Helen of Troy whirled on the speaker.

"You can welch any time you want. It's Johnny's idea and Johnny's jack.
If you ain't game to go through with it----"

"Aw, dry up, girlie! Who said anything about welching? I just wanted
you to know that we aren't going it blind. If we didn't need the money
so bad----"

"If people didn't need money there wouldn't be any crooks," she said
tartly. "Now let's check over the plan."

They put their heads together and for the next fifteen minutes their
earnest voices hummed steadily; five clever--if warped--brains planning
the betterment of themselves and the discomfiture of a single, lonely,
unwieldy detective.

"It's rough," summarized Happy Gorman, "but it looks like a cinch."

They separated. Slim Bolton went to a downtown garage, where he took
out a car bought by him three days before. Slim knew more than a thing
or two about automobiles, and for two days had been devoting his
energies to the task of tuning this car up to the notch of perfect
performance. He drove downtown and parked opposite the office building
which housed the firm of Starnes & Company, bankers and brokers.

Slim took his post in the automobile at about eleven o'clock. At 11:30
he was joined by Happy Gorman, strong of arm and melancholy of face.

At 11:45 Connie Hawes appeared. He was dressed in a loose-fitting tweed
suit, his coat tailored with a vent back so as to afford a maximum
of action liberty. He nodded briefly to the two men in the car, then
strolled around the corner and stationed himself outside a barber shop
where he controlled a view of the building which held the Starnes
offices. At 1:20 o'clock the figure of Johnny Norton came into view.
He was walking up from the main business thoroughfare of the city and
carrying a package which the men knew contained the Liberty Bonds.
From the corner of his eye he took note of the fact that his three
confederates were on duty. He turned into the office building and five
minutes later was ushered into the private office of Joseph P. Starnes.
That gentleman greeted him effusively, but it was patent, too, that Mr.
Starnes was very much on guard.

"You're late, Mr. Norton."

"Sorry," explained Johnny suavely. "I overslept, and I've been busy
checking over these bonds." He produced a knife and deftly cut the
twine which bound the bulky package. "I suppose you have the note
prepared."

"Yes."

Starnes reached for the bonds. His sharp eyes, glittering from beneath
bushy brows, inspected them closely. There wasn't a doubt of their
genuineness. He counted them three times. Mr. Starnes was thoroughly
reassured. His firm was on the verge of negotiating a very profitable
loan. They were to receive 7 per cent interest from Johnny, rediscount
the bonds at five per cent and thus make a clear 2 per cent profit,
plus brokerage commission, without the embarrassment of tying up any of
their cash reserve.

"Amount correct?" questioned Johnny crisply.

"Yes."

Johnny glanced at his watch.

"It is almost time for the bank to close, Mr. Starnes. If you'll make
out my check for two hundred thousand and let me sign the note----I
want to make my deposit to-day."

Starnes reached for a memorandum pad.

"I'll have to take these numbers down."

Johnny was frigid under the strain.

"I have a list here, Mr. Starnes. If you will just check the bonds
themselves."

"Good!"

Unsuspiciously Joseph P. Starnes checked the numbers on the bonds as
Johnny Norton read from the list. It was considerable of a memory feat
on Johnny's part, and he would not have been equal to it save for the
fact that he worked with a key system. He read the numbers swiftly,
each number that he read being the actual number on a bond which the
banker checked off. But the numbers which Johnny called out were not
the numbers which he had on his list.

The hour of two was approaching. Johnny again suggested that he desired
to make his deposit that day in the First National. Starnes sounded the
buzzer for his bookkeeper.

"The Norton note, please, and the check."

They were duly produced. Starnes innocently reached for the list of
bond numbers which Johnny had unostentatiously laid atop the bonds and
extended the list to his bookkeeper.

"See that these are entered up, Mr. Mathews. These are the
thousand-dollar Liberties which we have accepted as security for the
loan to Mr. Norton here."

The bookkeeper departed with the incorrect list of bonds. Johnny Norton
was grinning inwardly. He scribbled his name on the note and accepted
the Starnes check for two hundred thousand dollars. He shook hands and
departed. Slim Bolton and Happy Gorman saw him swing down the street en
route to the First National. At two minutes before two o'clock Johnny
deposited to his credit the Starnes check. Then he returned to the
hotel--and Helen.

She was exultant at his report of success, and immediately they set
the stage for a new drama. From the depths of his trunk he produced
several dozen blank checks of the Crescent National of New Orleans.
These he placed on the writing desk beside Major Torrance's check for
eight thousand dollars, which was also on the Crescent National. A half
dozen pens were next laid out carefully and several bottles of ink,
all approximately of the color used originally by the unsuspecting
horse owner, who was at that moment a victim to _mal de mer_. Then,
with brow furrowed, Johnny went to work. The spell of it gained upon
him; he forgot for the moment that this was not seriously undertaken.
His fingers, clumsy through lack of practice, labored over 8's and 0's
similar to those made by the major.

"It's a dog-goned shame," commented Johnny, "that I ain't really trying
something like this."

Helen gazed pridefully upon his handiwork.

"Come off that, dearie! Jim'd have you in less than no time."

"I know, I know; but I'm awfully tempted." He shoved his chair back
from the writing desk, lighted a Turkish cigarette and walked to
the window, where he posed for a moment, carelessly twirling his
close-clipped mustache. "Better telephone Jim, Helen. We want this
thing to be an alibi."

She called the number of Jim's hotel apartment house. The switchboard
operator there answered.

"Mr. Hanvey's apartment, please."

There was a brief pause and then the operator's voice: "If you'll hold
the telephone for a moment I'll connect you. Mr. Hanvey has just went
up in the elevator."

Helen nodded violently at her husband, signifying that Jim was at home.
In the transmitter she fired a question: "How long has he been out?"

"I don't know. I've just been on duty a half hour. If you wish----"

Then came a violent buzzing, a pause and a drawling, lazy voice from
the other end:

"Hello! Who's this now?"

"Jim?"

"Yeh?"

"This is Helen."

"Is it?"

"Oh, Jim"--she pulled out the tremolo stop--"you promised to help me
keep Johnny straight--you promised!"

"Well, I'm doin' my best."

"You haven't done enough. He's working now, Jim--right now. Do you
understand?"

"On that paper?"

"Yes. Understand?"

"Sure; sure I do, Helen! I ain't so thick I can't see the joke when one
clown slaps another in the pants. What you want me to do about it?"

"Come down and stop him. He'll listen to you."

"There ain't many folks will." Brief silence and then--"I'll come. It's
awful hot for walkin'----"

"Take a taxi."

Came Jim's answer, heavy with sarcasm: "Too durned expensive for an
honest detective."

His receiver clicked on the hook. Helen flung herself across the room
and into her husband's arms.

"It worked, dearie. He just came in, which means he ain't hanging
around Starnes & Company. He probably followed you when you left there,
to get an idea if you were up to anything special. Saw you return to
the hotel, and he went home. You've got an alibi. And now--now we'll
let him save you from going crooked! Oh, honey, we're getting away with
it!"

He patted her shoulder fondly.

"You sure are a dandy wife, Helen! Great ol' girl!"

She bustled into the dressing room.

"I'll be on the watchout for Jim in the lobby. Remember, Johnny, if you
act your part right he'll never suspect you of being in on this deal,
even if something should go wrong."

As she arranged her hat Johnny Norton glanced across the housetops in
the general direction of the downtown business district.

"Gee, I'd give something to know what happened down yonder!"

It was worth knowing, for there had been action a-plenty. All three of
the waiting men had witnessed Johnny's departure from the offices of
Starnes & Company, and they saw Johnny walk to the bank via the route
which they knew the messenger would take. The quintet had planned this
affair to a detail. They knew, for instance, that securities of unusual
value held by Starnes & Company were daily taken to the First National
Bank by a trustworthy messenger.

This messenger was little more than a glorified office boy despite
his maturity. Too, he was a creature of habit. He daily departed the
Starnes & Company suite about 2:30 o'clock, and being methodical took
the shortest possible route to the First National. It was upon this
habit of the messenger's that much of their scheme was based.

There were two routes between the Starnes corner and the First
National, located two blocks away. The obvious one was down Elm Street
one block to Main, and thence along that cheap thoroughfare to Pelham
Street. The other was one block north on Ashmore and thence across
on Pelham to Main. The latter route was several steps shorter, less
traveled, and therefore easier. It was this second route which the
Starnes messenger was in the habit of taking.

Almost identical in distance, the two routes were entirely dissimilar.
Elm Street was a principal thoroughfare, something which could not be
said of either Ashmore or Pelham. Those two blocks were lined with
shoddy secondhand stores, groceries, markets and third-rate cafeterias.

At thirty-three minutes after two o'clock the Starnes messenger emerged
from the big office building and started northward on Ashmore. He
walked with a peculiar shuffling gait, and in his right hand he
clutched a brown-leather satchel. The moment he appeared Slim Bolton
slipped into reverse, backed his sedan into the traffic, turned into
Ashmore and followed. He saw Connie Hawes detach himself from the
doorway of a barber shop and fall into step behind the decrepit and
unsuspecting messenger.

Slim was driving parallel to the slow-moving messenger. His car veered
toward the curb. A trifle ahead of the man, Slim stopped his car and
immediately slipped into second in preparation for a quick get-away.
Happy Gorman, every inch the gentleman in appearance, opened the rear
door of the sedan and hailed the little old man.

"Pardon me, stranger," he said politely, "but would you mind telling me
which way I go to reach the best hotel?"

The messenger paused and quite innocently moved toward the curb and the
car. He recognized that this man must be a tourist. Connie Hawes closed
in on him from the rear.

"The best hotel?" repeated the messenger, pleased at having been
questioned. "It's two blocks down that way, and then----"

The world went black before his eyes. Connie Hawes struck as he leaped.
The messenger pitched forward into the opened door and Connie flung him
out of the way as he darted by and grabbed the satchel. A spectator,
rigid with terror, emitted a shriek of horror. The messenger crumpled
grotesquely in the gutter--stunned.

Slim clamped down on the accelerator and sped forward. There was no
traffic policeman on that little-used corner. Another pedestrian
shouted, but no one knew what caused his excitement. The car whirled
eastward on Pelham Street, turned north at the next corner and then
rounded the block and sped southward over the viaduct. A crowd
had collected about the figure of the stricken messenger, who was
now struggling back to consciousness. Excitement was intense, but
explanations given the belated policeman were incoherent. The officer
notified headquarters that a messenger for the Starnes banking house
had been hit on the head and robbed, but he had no clue as to the
identity of the assailants and knew nothing of the affair save that
the escape had been made in an automobile. And the three criminals,
speeding across country, little appreciated the measure of their
safety. They drove at reasonable speed for thirty miles. At the
first little town Connie Hawes alighted, carrying the satchel. The
car proceeded. Twelve miles farther south Happy Gorman left the car.
Slim drove into the next town, parked his car at the curb, strolled
nonchalantly into a drug store, where he consumed an ice-cream soda,
and twenty minutes later boarded a New Orleans-bound train. In the
second Pullman he saw Connie Hawes and Happy Gorman, but by no
slightest gesture did these men indicate an acquaintanceship with one
another.

They knew that they were safe, but took no chances. Time enough for
that after their trip westward from New Orleans, when they should have
attained safety on the far side of the Mexican border.

Events of some importance had been occurring contemporaneously in the
city from which they had so abruptly departed. Immediately on receiving
the telephone call from Helen of Troy, Jim Hanvey left his diminutive
apartment. The heat had become more intense; the sun baked down from a
sky unmarked by clouds.

Walking, for Jim, was far from a pleasure. He rolled uncomfortably
down the street, his tiny, fishlike eyes blinking with interminable
slowness, fat hands flapping awkwardly against his pants legs with each
lumbering step. He turned in at the hotel lobby and there found Helen.
She crossed eagerly toward him, futilely searching his puttylike face
for any indication of suspicion.

"You understand what I wanted with you, Jim?"

"Yeh, sure I understand, Helen. But it does seem to me Johnny might've
been considerate enough to pick a cooler day to go crooked on."

"He's working now. He's all excited, looking like he's sorry he wasted
all this time going straight. He's a wizard with other folks' checks,
Johnny is."

"M'm-h'm! Clever boy. What you want me to do?"

"Go up and talk to him."

"Alone?"

"I'll go with you."

"He won't get peeved at you for tipping me off?"

"I don't care if he does," she returned virtuously. "I always have
believed that honesty was the best policy--when you don't really need
money."

"Yeh--and when you get away with it."

They entered Johnny's room without the formality of knocking.

Johnny backed against the table, jaws working in true movie-villain
fashion. His hands, groping behind his back, scraped the checks into a
heap in a crude attempt at concealment. Helen, too, gave evidence of
the fact that the art of the actor is not yet dead--or even ill. She
raised pitiful eyes to her husband's face.

"I know you'll hate me, Johnny; but I tipped Jim off."

He simulated great rage.

"Snitched on me, eh? Damn you----"

"Whoa, Johnny! Easy there, son! I hate to hear ladies damn-you'd when
I'm around."

Johnny turned his offended attention to the detective.

"It's none of your business----"

"I hope not, Johnny; but it most likely would have been if Helen hadn't
telephoned me."

"I did it for your sake, Johnny," she chimed in. "I have been very
happy during the last six years, unhaunted by the fear of prison
cells."

Jim turned to her, a quizzical light in his glassy eyes.

"Who wrote them words?"

She flushed.

"I don't know; but they're just what I feel." She threw her arms around
Johnny's neck. "Please, dearie, for my sake, for the sake of our
happiness, listen to Jim! We've been straight for so long. You couldn't
get away with no forgery job now, dearie; you're all out of practice."

Jim waddled heavily across the room and took the batch of half-written
checks from Johnny's unresisting hand.

"Lemme see how good you are now, kid. You used to be real clever."
He inspected them closely. "T'chk! T'chk! They just can't come back,
Johnny. That's awful rough work. I'd have got you in no time at all.
Yeh, tough luck, son; but I reckon you'd be wise to run straight from
now on. You've lost your touch, Johnny."

An expression of genuine sorrow crossed Johnny's face.

"On the level?"

"Surest thing you know!"

"Well"--and Johnny sighed--"I s'pose I might as well keep on like I've
been going. Much obliged, Jim."

Helen's hysterical squeal of delight filled the room.

"You promise, dearie--promise to keep straight forever and ever?"

"Amen!"

She turned her attention to Jim, clasped one of his hands between both
of hers.

"I don't know how to thank you, Jim. You've been wonderful, marvelous!"

Jim blushed boyishly.

"Gee, Helen, lay offen that stuff! When a good-lookin' dame begins
sayin' sweet things to me I ain't got no more backbone than a nickel's
worth of ice cream."

"But, Jim----"

The telephone jangled.

"That's for me," Jim announced.

"You?"

"Uh-huh! I was expectin' a call an' I told the apartment house operator
she'd find me here."

Helen and her husband were ill-at-ease. In a trice they had ceased
to be sorry for the ungainly detective. There was something so
cumbersomely positive in his manner; such a degree of assurance.

"Hello!"

It was Hanvey at the telephone. The two others strained their ears, but
without result. And Jim's face told them no more than they could have
learned by watching the lee side of a cantaloupe.

"Yeh, Jim Hanvey speaking.... Uh-huh.... You don't say so!... When?...
Clear?... You done what I suggested?... Well, that proves you ain't the
absolute ass I thought you was, Mr. Starnes."

He clicked the receiver on the hook and turned away. He lighted a fresh
cigar and jerked his head toward the telephone. "Funny thing," he
commented disinterestedly.

"Yes?" They spoke eagerly in chorus.

"Messenger left the Starnes offices a few minutes ago. Coupla
roughnecks bumped him on the bean, grabbed his satchel and made a
get-away." If he discerned their mutual signs of relief he gave no
indication of the fact. His voice droned on monotonously. "Old man
Starnes is a stiff-necked idiot, but this time he was wise. He took my
advice for once."

"Your advice?"

"Sure! Y'see, with you dumping a quarter million dollars in
unregistered Liberties with him, there was always danger that some
crooks might get wise to it and try to make a haul. So I suggested to
Fat-head Starnes that he stick them securities in his own vault for a
while instead of sendin' 'em down to the First National as he usually
does. In view of what just happened, I think I was kinder clever--real
awful clever." He paused apologetically. "You ain't got no objections
to me callin' myself clever, have you?"

They did not answer, a premonition of disaster had robbed them of
speech.

"Y'see, Helen, them naughty crooks might of got away with Johnny's
Liberty Bonds. Might of, I said. But they didn't. All that was in that
satchel was a few registered bonds which ain't worth duck soup s'far's
negotiatin' 'em is concerned."

Helen's face was dead white beneath her plentiful make-up.

"Johnny's Liberty Bonds are still at Starnes & Company?"

"Yeh, sure!"

"You wouldn't lie to me, Jim, would you?"

"Aw, Helen, you know I wouldn't! Fat men are rotten liars."

"You suspected that the bank messenger was going to be robbed?"

He nodded.

"I had a sort of a hunch thataway."

She turned dejectedly. It was Johnny Norton who launched the next
question:

"How did you get wise, Jim?"

"Me? It was easy this time. A lady tipped me off; a terrible pretty
blond lady." Helen winced. "'Bout as much of a tip-off as I needed,
anyway," continued Jim softly. "Y'know, Johnny, things occur awful
funny sometimes. I happened to drift into the Starnes offices just
after you left, and would you believe it, the list of bond numbers that
old bird had didn't tally with the bonds at all. It was real peculiar.
So I just suggested that they hold 'em there a while for the bookkeeper
to enter 'em up. Y'know, a banker ought to be more careful than Starnes
was. He never knows when he's li'ble to get gypped." He turned toward
the door. "Yeh, Johnny, if I was you I'd stay on the safe side of
things. You've lost your touch, son--lost it complete."

Helen of Troy stared at her husband and he returned her gaze with one
equally miserable. Jim Hanvey posed heavily in the doorway, the fingers
of his right hand fiddling with his massive watch chain. He regarded
them benignly. Then he blinked with maddening slowness.

"Didn't you come to me, Helen, an' ask me to keep Johnny from goin'
crooked?"

She nodded.

"Well," drawled the big man, "I only done what you asked me, didn't I?"




                             CAVEAT EMPTOR


Jim Hanvey lolled upon a park bench, his ample and ungainly figure
entirely surrounded by landscape. The fingers of his right hand
clutched the stump of a cigar which for downright meanness was in a
class alone. His fat and florid face was wreathed in contentment and
his fishy eyes were partially curtained by heavy lids from beneath
which Jim stared amusedly at a group of very small children who romped
in shrill disdain of a sign which warned all and sundry that that
particular grass was not to be trod upon.

The sun of early September was dropping slowly to rest behind the
interminable line of apartment houses on the farther side of Central
Park West. It sprinkled in golden radiance through the red leaves above
Jim's uncovered head and mottled the rich green carpet beneath his
enormous feet. Jim's eyes closed slowly as he luxuriously stretched his
Gargantuan frame. Then the eyes opened to rest upon the trim figure
of a little girl of six who stood regarding him with an expression of
grave but frank interest.

"Hmm!" Jim pulled himself together. "Good evening."

The child made no answer. A spot near Jim's mid-section held her
undivided attention. The unwieldy detective matched the child's
gravity with his own. She was a pretty little thing whose raiment,
even to Jim's untutored eyes, bespoke extreme affluence. At length,
with absolute ease of manner, she moved forward and touched with her
fore-finger, the gold toothpick which hung suspended from the heavy
watch chain spanning Jim's ill-fitting vest.

"That's pretty," she commented abruptly.

Jim's face lighted with pleasure. It was seldom indeed that his pet bit
of personal ornamentation received so genuine a compliment.

"Ain't it?"

"Yup. Awful pretty." Then, doubtfully. "What is it?"

Jim touched a button and a wicked and glistening point appeared. "A
toothpick," he explained.

"What's that?"

"It's--well, you see----" His face went blank. "Just a toothpick,
that's all. Solid gold."

"Oh!" said the child. "I see."

Jim felt relieved. He fancied it might be difficult to explain a solid
gold toothpick and he thanked goodness for the youngster's erudition.
She continued to finger the bauble approvingly but, so far as she was
concerned, the conversation was at an end.

The silence proved somewhat embarrassing to Jim. It was entirely too
impersonal for his friendly nature. "What's your name?"

"Pauline."

"Pauline what?"

"Pauline Lathrop."

"That's a pretty name, Pauline. Where do you live?"

A touch of imitative snobbishness displayed itself in the answer of the
little girl. "Riverside Drive. My father is a very rich man and we have
three automobiles."

"Wonderful. Astounding. And what is your father's name?"

"Mr. Noah Lathrop. He's an emporter."

"An emporter, eh?" Remembrance came to the detective. "Sure. Sure
enough he is. A joolry importer, isn't he?"

"Yup. An' we got three automobiles."

"That certainly is wonderful, Pauline. I'm awful glad to know about
them automobiles. I guess your daddy's business must be awful good."

"No," confessed the child frankly. "Father says it's gone to hell."

Jim was a trifle nonplussed. "That's too bad. I'm real sorry to hear
it, Pauline."

Once again the wordless, contemplative stare of the child. "You're
awful fat."

"So I've heard."

"And you look ugly," she finished. "But you ain't."

"That's a relief. I aint no blue-ribbon entry, at that."

"I like that gold thing," continued Pauline. "But I bet you aint got
three automobiles."

"No. I bet I aint."

"My Father has, and he says----"

"Pauline!" The voice of a woman came inquiringly through the soft air
of a gradually gathering dusk. "Oo-oh! Pauline."

"That's my nurse," she explained to Jim Hanvey. "She gets twenty
dollars a week. Her name is Mary."

Jim's eyes turned slowly toward the trim little uniformed figure which
was bearing down upon them. Faint stirrings of recollection occurred in
the detective's brain. The figure--the face--the voice----And now Mary
had taken Pauline's hand.

"I told you not to run away from that summerhouse. I've been looking
everywhere for you." She exhibited genuine concern--and relief. Pauline
appeared not at all interested.

"This man has got a gold toothpick," she announced triumphantly. "But
he aint got three automobiles."

The nurse turned toward the big man with a smile of quiet apology on
her lips. Her eyes met the glassy orbs of the detective; and the smile
congealed. The color receded from her cheeks and it was patent that she
was struggling to recover a poise suddenly lost.

The detective blinked with maddening slowness. "Hello Mary," he said.
"How's Tim?"

The trim little woman in the nurse's uniform stood rigid for a moment.
Then she turned to the child. "Run on and play with the other children
a few minutes," she ordered. Pauline obeyed willingly enough. The nurse
stood regarding Hanvey apprehensively, and eventually the mammoth
detective punctured the silence.

"Why the disguise, Mary?"

She spoke in tones so low as to be scarcely audible. "It isn't a
disguise, Jim."

"No-o? Last time I seen you----"

"Never mind that," she said nervously. "I'm runnin' straight now. Lay
off."

"Goshamighty, Mary--I aint aiming to do nothin' else. I'm just curious."

"I tell you everything's all right."

"Sure it is. But why the job? What you doin' nursin' a kid?"

He could discern the struggle which she was undergoing. And finally she
seated herself beside him. "There aint a thing wrong, Jim. Honest there
aint. I've just been workin' since they sent Tim up."

"He's in stir?"

"Didn't you know?"

"I heard somethin' about it--but the case wasn't exactly in my line as
I remember. Gov'ment, wasn't it?"

She nodded. "Smuggling."

"Shuh!"

"They caught him with the goods. He pleaded guilty. He's doing a
two-year stretch in Atlanta. He left me flat--that's why I went to
work. I got a nursing job because I naturally like kids. I had to do
somethin'."

"Mm!" Jim's face betrayed no particular interest. If there was doubt of
her in his mind he did not show it. "Funny--you workin' as a nursegirl
while Tim is doing a stretch. Well--I sure hope you stay on the
straight an' narrow. It don't pay awful good but it's real safe."

She sighed with relief. "I'm not pulling anything, Jim. I'm on the
level--anyway until Timmy gets out."

She summoned her youthful charge and they walked off together toward
the Seventy-second street gate. Jim stared speculatively after them. He
groped blindly for a match and relighted his cigar. Then, as he inhaled
deeply, he gave vent to an expression of doubt----

"Wonder what she lied to me for?"

His somnolent eyes half closed and as he lay back in his seat there
came to him the faint limning of the picture in which she had appeared
at the occasion of their last meeting--a bank job in Omaha, a
successful bank job in which he knew that she had been the brains of
the gang. Jim held a great admiration for that little woman; she was
courageous and she was clever; she played her cards well and she played
them boldly. That last case had been one of his few unsuccessful ones
and he had been more than half glad of it. He had been out to get them,
but, failing, he felt nothing of resentment--only a keen admiration for
the brains which had outwitted him.

But a few minutes since he had seen Mary Lannigan flustered for the
first time in the several years of their acquaintanceship. That
discomfiture bespoke guilt. Hanvey's fat fingers groped for the gold
toothpick so lately admired by Pauline Lathrop. That golden horror was
of inestimable assistance to Hanvey in moments of mental stress. Mary
working as a nursegirl. Hmph! There was something behind that--bound
to be. Jim Hanvey was reputed to know intimately every worthwhile
crook in the country and he counted Tim and Mary Lannigan as among
his very best friends. Jim knew, for instance, that Tim had a young
fortune salted away and that it was not at all necessary for his wife
to work as a menial while he enjoyed the hospitality of the United
States government. That being the case, Mary's present occupation
was the cloak for something. He was sorry--darn shame Mary couldn't
keep straight. Good kid. "An' dog-gone her--she's gone an' got me all
interested."

At first Jim determined to play hands off. He wasn't a policeman; it
was no duty of his to make trouble for crooks who were not engaged
in work which held his immediate attention. But there was something
bizarre in the very thought of this excessively clever little woman
acting as nursemaid to a snippy little girl who boasted of her father's
trio of motor cars. Two other facts paraded before him, demanding that
he adduce something from their proximity to one another.

One of them was that the father of the girl whom Mary nursed was a
jewelry importer.

The second fact had to do with Tim Lannigan's incarceration for
smuggling. Smuggling was not in Tim's line.

That night Jim reluctantly omitted his regular picture show and did
a little investigation. Information came readily to hand principally
because Jim knew just where to turn. When he retired near midnight he
knew considerably more about Mary Lannigan's job, but there were one or
two blank spaces which had aroused his curiosity beyond measure.

One vital thing he had learned--and that was that the name of Noah
Lathrop had been mentioned more than casually in the case which
resulted in Tim's journey to Atlanta. Just what Lathrop had to do with
it no one could adequately explain, but there was undeniably a sinister
significance.

He was at the park again the following day but Mary and the child
did not appear. The next afternoon Jim was on Riverside Drive at the
hour he knew a nurse would naturally go walking. Pauline recognized
him first, nor, in the eagerness with which she greeted him, did he
lose sight of the apprehension which blanched the pretty face of Mary
Lannigan.

"That," proclaimed the tactful Pauline, designating Jim's gold
toothpick, "is vulgar."

"G'wan. Why?"

"Gentlemen," she explained, "do not use _gold_ toothpicks."

Jim turned quizzically to Mary. "Aint she the bright kid?" He grew
serious then--"Come out of it, Sister. I aint gonna eat you."

He walked with them to Central Park. In response to his unspoken
command, Mary sent Pauline to play with the other children and she and
Jim sat together on the bench. It was Jim who spoke first, after he had
lighted one of his offensively fragrant cigars.

"Get me straight, Mary--I don't want to cause you no trouble ... but
you've got my curiosity aroused something terrible."

For a moment she didn't answer. She sat staring at the path where her
toe was etching aimlessly in the dust. And finally she faced him with
a flash of her old-time spirit. "I want you to lay off, Jim. I'm not
pulling anything crooked."

"If you're runnin' straight I aint got no choice, have I?"

"Yes--you have."

"How you make that?"

"You can queer things for me--and," earnestly, "I don't want 'em
queered, Jim--I don't want 'em queered."

There was a little break in her voice which puzzled him. She was deeply
moved--that, in itself, was a novelty. He took her hand gently between
both of his enormous ones and patted it as a father might have done.

"I aint tryin' to butt in on your affairs, Sister, but I'd like to get
the low-down on this. I'll say right off--wait a minute, I'll come
clean with you before you spill anything. You got me curious night
before last with that straight stuff an' all. I know--an' you know I
know--that Tim has a pile salted away which means that I didn't swallow
your bunk about needin' the twenty-per-an'-cakes you're gettin' for
nursin' that kid which has a father who owns three automobiles.

"As I say, that sort of started me off an' I did a little checking up
on my own hook. I learned, among other things, that Noah Lathrop's
name sort of figured in the smugglin' case which sent Tim South--that
indicatin' pretty clear that you ain't workin' in Lathrop's house for
no reason which ought to make Lathrop comfortable. So knowin' what I
know, if you want to loosen up--why, go right to it, Sister, an' I'll
be all ears, like any other jackass."

Her head was bowed and it was plain that she was thinking intensively.
On the grass nearby the children romped, their shrillings cutting
through the balminess of the September evening. From Central Park West
came the clanging of Eighth Avenue cars and the occasional sirening of
automobile traffic. A man and woman on horseback rode down the bridle
path near them and a park policeman strolled by and ostentatiously
looked away as he, with considerable surprise, recognized the obese
Hanvey.

At length she commenced speaking, her voice coming as though from a
great distance. "It's important, Jim, first of all, that you understand
I'm telling the truth. If there's anything I say that aint true--it
aint because I think it aint. I'm giving you the works as I know
'em. I'm telling you--well, first of all, because I want to get it
off my chest. And second, because you'd get wise anyway. And third,
because--Oh! just because.

"I'll commence right at the beginnin', Jim. It started six months ago
when Tim went to Europe. You know he's a real gent and every once in so
often he works the card graft on the big steamers--not often enough for
them to know him. Only when business is dull.

"Well, he was over there loafing around waiting for a certain party to
sail for America again, this party being the grandest sucker which ever
stood a couple of raises for the privilege of drawin' to an in-between
straight. About that time Mr. Noah Lathrop was in Paris doing some
jewelry buying. He goes over there once or twice every year. His firm
is one of the biggest on Maiden Lane. And in Paris at the same time
Lathrop and Tim were, was Walter Yeager."

"Yeager?" Hanvey exhibited keen interest. "In Paris?"

"Yeh. All set for a job. An' get this, Jim--I aint tryin' to get Walt
in bad. He's had a tough enough time already. But even if Walt does run
foul of trouble I can't help it. I'm out to do what I can for Tim ...
that's all I'm thinking of."

Again that little catch in her voice. Jim closed his glassy eyes
sleepily and motioned for her to continue.

"To hold a long story down, Walt Yeager was onto something soft in
Paris. He pulled the job and got away with it--about three hundred and
fifty thousand dollars worth of stones that are stones. It turned the
Paris police inside out and stood 'em on their ear. It was as nifty a
piece of work as you've ever heard of, an' Walt got away with it in a
way you'd be proud of if you knew the details.

"Well, there was Walt with the jewels and nothin' to do with 'em.
The European markets had nine eyes peeled an' Walt didn't dare bring
'em to this country because when he came through the customs there'd
be a stir and a talk--and flooie! So, Walt hearing that Lathrop was
doin' his semi-annual buying, an' knowing that he wasn't more than ten
miles above a shady transaction, went to him, confessed that he had
stolen jewels and asked him what they'd be worth in cash, delivered at
Lathrop's New York office.

"Lathrop was interested, of course. It was a graft for him. He'd run no
risk buying the stuff in New York and since his house has a first class
rep he knew he could slip 'em on the market one by one and the trade
would never be no wiser. They dickered around for awhile and agreed on
one hundred and forty thousand dollars cash, F. O. B. Maiden Lane. And
that's where Tim was pulled into the deal.

"Walt Yeager wasn't willing to declare those jewels at the customs
and he wasn't game to try and smuggle 'em. So he told Lathrop that in
order to carry the deal through Lathrop must hire some one to do the
smuggling. Yeager and Lathrop both inquired around and learned that Tim
was over there--he bein' at that time in Bremen waiting for his sucker
friend. He had gone there from Paris. Lathrop went to Germany, found
Tim and offered him five thousand dollars for the job of smuggling.

"Tim grabbed it. It seemed like a cinch. And that's where Lathrop done
Tim dirt--because," she turned her blazing eyes on Jim Hanvey--"the
dirty crook never told Tim that the jewels he was supposed to smuggle
was stolen goods!"

Jim nodded heavily. "I see.... Lathrop was dishonest. Even with Tim."

"Exactly. And he played safe seven different ways. He saw to it that
Tim and Walt Yeager engaged passage on a French liner for New York and
he had it framed with Walt that he wasn't to say a word to Tim until
they were pretty close to the customs when all Walt was to do was to
turn the stuff over to Tim, watch Tim smuggle it through and then get
it back from him and deliver it to Lathrop. Tim was to make the trip
knowing that some one was going to slip him some jewels just before
they got to customs. And as true as I'm telling you, Jim, he didn't
know it was nothing more than a smuggling job. It never occurred to him
that there might be something behind it.

"Lathrop never even come back on the same ship with them. He sailed a
week ahead from Southampton. Tim and Walt came over together from Havre
and a couple days before they reached New York, Walt slipped Tim the
stuff.

"Well, there aint any use botherin' you with details about how Tim
tried to work it. It's enough to say that they nabbed him. Caught him
dead to rights. Tim was sorry, but he wasn't really worried. He knew
all he had to do was to get in touch with Lathrop on the Q. T. and a
heap of influence would be used to get him a fine instead of a jail
sentence and that Lathrop would pay the fine. But--" her hand went out
and tightened grimly over Jim's flappy paw--"Lathrop welched. Welched
like a dirty yeller dog. He said he didn't know Tim, hadn't never seen
him before, and had nothing whatever to do with the case. Meanwhile
Tim, feeling secure, had pleaded guilty to the smuggling charge.

"And it wasn't until after he pleaded guilty to that, Jim--and Walt
Yeager had disappeared--that Tim learned how bad he was in. Because the
jewels he had admitted smuggling were the ones which had been stolen in
Paris and they were recognized instanter. That's where Tim was crossed
up. It wasn't that they nabbed him for smuggling--he was guilty of
that and willing to take his medicine. But he wasn't mixed up in the
robbery....

"And here's the lay of the land now. Tim got two years in the Federal
prison for smuggling. He's been there seven months. The jewels have
been returned to Paris. Yeager has disappeared. Noah Lathrop swears he
don't know nothing about anything crooked. And when Tim gets through
serving his smuggling time, Jim--they're going to send him back to
Paris to stand trial for stealing them jewels."

Her voice trailed off. Jim blinked with maddening slowness and turned
his apparently sightless eyes upon a pert little squirrel nearby. But
his voice was charged with keenest sympathy----

"They've got him dead to rights, sure enough, aint they, Mary?"

"Yes," with fierce bitterness, "they have. He hasn't a leg to stand on.
It's twenty or twenty-five years in a French prison for him. He was in
Paris when the robbery occurred--no chance to prove an alibi. He tried
to smuggle the stones. He was caught red-handed. He confessed to the
smuggling. Lathrop was in the clear--what's Tim's word against his? And
I--well, I don't mind the two years Tim is doing: he went into that
with his eyes open ... but Jim--I'm out to save Tim from doing a twenty
year stretch for something he never even knew about. That's what I'm
doing, Jim. Now do you understand?"

Jim nodded a ponderous affirmative. "I sure do, Mary. I sure do. But I
still don't quite savvy this nurse stuff."

Her voice came crisply now in response to the warm friendliness of the
detective's tone. "Any man who will do what Noah Lathrop did is the
dirtiest kind of a crook. He's poison mean and low-down and rotten. You
never knew a first class crook who would welch like that, did you?"

"No-o. Not no decent crook."

"Neither did I. And I figured out if Lathrop was that crooked--it
wasn't the first time. He's a prominent man and he's proud. He must
have slipped before. It's a certainty that some time in his life he's
done something just as rotten as the trick he pulled on Tim. Oh! I
wouldn't be kicking if he'd come clean with Tim in the first place and
told him it was stolen stuff. It was the double-crossing and then the
welching that hurt. And the fact that Tim is innocent. A crook has a
hard enough life serving time for what he really does, let alone what
he don't do.

"That's why I worked around and got this job as nursegirl in Lathrop's
home. I've got a room on the place, and I'm watching, Jim--I'm watching
close. I'm learning a heap about that bird. He's rotten all the way
through--a cheap, piking, safety-first crook. Smug and self-satisfied
and so stuck on himself I want to kill him sometimes. Of course he
don't dream I know Tim Lannigan or that I'm anything except what I seem.

"And some day, Jim, I'm gonna get something on Noah Lathrop--something
that he'd rather die than see come out. And when I do I'm gonna make
him sing. I'm gonna make him come out in the clear and save Tim
from doing that stretch in France." She threw her arms wide in an
unconsciously dramatic gesture--"That's why I'm working as a nursegirl
in his house, Jim--that's why."

Pauline Lathrop appeared and demanded two cents with which to purchase
an apple-on-a-stick. She accepted the money from Jim but again
expressed her disdain for the vulgar toothpick. "And your cigars smell
terrible."

Jim sighed. "I reckon they do. But I like 'em."

"You're a funny man," said the child.

Pauline departed joyously to purchase her confection. Jim turned
friendly eyes upon the tiny, indomitable figure of the little woman
by his side. He _tchk'd_ once or twice and mopped his forehead with a
lavender handkerchief.

"You'll lay off me, won't you, Jim?"

"Huh?"

"You'll give me a free hand in this matter, won't you? Let me play it
my own way?"

He thought for a moment before replying. And then, slowly and
deliberately he shook his head. "Nope."

He saw her figure stiffen, watched the delicate hands ball into tiny
fists. "Jim...." There was horror and unbelief in her tone.

"Nope, Mary--I aint gonna play hands off in this little game of yours.
Not for a minute. I can't." He, with difficulty crossed one enormous
leg over the other. "But I tell you what I will do," he volunteered
conversationally.

"What?"

His voice was toneless.

"I'll help you."

For a second she did not move. "You--you'll help?" she choked.

"Sure."

"H-h-help me to clear Tim?"

"Sure."

She faced him then, her face flushed and radiant, the light of
happiness flaming from her fine eyes. "Jim Hanvey!" she said, "I love
you for that!"

He fidgeted in embarrassment. "It is kinder funny--a detective workin'
for a crook. But it's something I've always wanted to do. Of course, I
mightn't be of any help----"

"You will, Jim. You will. Oh! it's wonderful. I've been so alone----"

"Aw! dry up, Sister. It's my job to nab the whole bunch of you when
you've done something to be nabbed for. But I like you--every one of
you--and I'm damned if I can sit back and see you go up for something
you didn't do. Specially when you've been double-crossed by an honest
man."

And long after she and little Pauline had disappeared beyond the
traffic of Central Park West, long after gray dusk had merged gently
into velvet night, long after the shrill playcalls of children had been
superseded by the low-toned dialogue of occasional passing couples and
the insistent, rhythmic _k-chnk, k-chnk_ of oarlocks from the adjacent
lake--long after all of that Jim Hanvey sat upon his park bench and
mused upon the vagaries of circumstance.

Jim Hanvey had experienced a long, a colorful, a varied career. Now,
for the first time, he found himself embarked upon a professional
enterprise on behalf of a criminal, the object of his attack being
a person in that class of society for which men such as Jim Hanvey
served as bulwark.

The situation was bizarre--rather outrageously so, but it held an
irresistible appeal to Jim. He was a lonely man who counted his
friends among those whom he professionally hunted. The better class of
criminals knew Jim and liked him. They outwitted him if they could--but
they played straight with him, just as he did with them. To most of
them it was a source of wonderment that he had not long since joined
their ranks. In answer to their frank questionings he invariably
returned an answer astounding in its simple logic----

"A feller is either born crooked or straight. I was born
straight--that's all. You can't blame me for that any more than I can
blame you for bein' crooked."

But now he was to attain the unspoken ambition of many years: he
was to expend his talents in an effort to free one of his criminal
friends from an unjust charge. Let Tim Lannigan serve his time for
smuggling--he was guilty. But Jim had checked up on Mary's story and
knew that she had spoken the truth. That being the case it behooved
him to see that Tim served a sentence for what he had done and was
extricated from the predicament into which he had blundered.

That he had undertaken a task of no mean proportions was plain to him.
In this particular matter the position of Noah Lathrop was impregnable.
There was no possible proof that Lathrop had connived with Walter
Yeager to purchase the stolen gems. There was even less proof that Noah
had hired Tim to do the smuggling. Certainly there was no chance to
enlist the services of Walt Yeager. It wasn't Walt's fault, anyway. He
had played fair with both Tim and Lathrop by the tenets of the criminal
code. It was unfortunate that Lathrop had betrayed Tim--but it was too
much to expect that Walt would do anything so absurdly quixotic as to
confess to the robbery in order to save Lannigan. And there wasn't even
an outside chance to convict Yeager of the original theft.

Mary Lannigan had the correct idea. A man as crooked as Lathrop
had shown himself to be in this instance had been crooked before.
He would be crooked again. He had indicated that he was moulded of
conscienceless stuff. Somewhere in his past there must be a skeleton
which he would not care to have displayed. And in order to prevent that
display he might even be willing to confess his guilt as a smuggling
accessory. In that way--and in that way alone--Tim Lannigan could be
saved from facing trial--and certain conviction--for the crime which he
had not committed.

Jim first of all boarded the Southern for Atlanta where he had two long
and earnest conversations with Tim Lannigan. Tim's story verified that
of Mary in every way. The big, handsome, red-headed crook was pitifully
embarrassed at the knowledge that Jim was working for him. Too, he made
no attempt to conceal his emotion at tidings of Mary's activity in his
behalf. Jim found him bitter against Lathrop and not at all so against
Walt Yeager. "Poor Walt! He was crossed up pretty near as bad as I was.
And he's flat now. Gosh! To think of getting away with a job like that
and then have a falldown. It's tough!"

"Sure is," agreed Jim.

Acquainting himself with Noah Lathrop's personality without meeting
that gentleman was a more difficult undertaking. He made occasion
to be near him two or three times when Lathrop was unconscious of
the sleepy-eyed surveillance. Jim found Lathrop a rather undersized,
slender man of obtrusive pomposity and disagreeable manner. He spoke in
a loud, nasal voice which carried unpleasantly a considerable distance
and his utterances were all dogmatic. Jim found his Great-I-Am attitude
annoying and at the same time amusing. There was a laughable similarity
between father and daughter. Jim could well fancy the boast of the
man----

"I pay four thousand a year for my apartment on the Drive and I
maintain three cars." Jim's big fingers fumbled with the gold
toothpick. Somehow, it seemed a little less vulgar than Pauline had led
him to believe.

Jim held frequent conferences with Mary Lannigan. She had nothing to
report but there was no lessening of confidence or determination. He
was amused by her grim defiance--the indomitable will to power behind
the masklike manners and pretty, girlish face. No wonder the smugly
complacent Noah Lathrop was unsuspicious of the dynamite within his
house; to all appearances Mary was merely an innoculously pretty young
woman temporarily engaged in the nursing profession--against the day
when she would be carried off to wife by some six-foot truck driver.

"I know I'm right, Jim. The man's rotten all the way through--and he
handled this affair in a way which proves that it aint the first time
he's pulled something. Sometimes when I watch him I get mad enough to
scream--I can imagine him chuckling to himself about his cleverness.
Not a thought for the man who he thinks is going to do the long stretch
in France." Her teeth clicked suddenly. "Oh! what's the use of letting
myself get all worked up? I guess my game is to lay low and keep
grinning."

"You said it, Sister. And when you get something on him--talk it over
with me. We'll make him dance a hornpipe."

She looked up gratefully into his expressionless eyes. "You can do
that, Jim. Until you promised to help I was only a crook without a
chance. I didn't know what I was going to do when I found what I was
hunting."

Jim shrugged. "It's you who's got to do the discoverin', Mary. Just
keep those bright eyes wide open----"

"I sure ain't gonna do nothin' else."

"--And let me know every least little thing that goes on. Listen in on
his dining room conversation all you can. A feller as stuck on himself
as that bimbo--an' as crazy about hearin' himself talk--is certain to
blab something around the house." Jim lighted a cigar. "He may even
have some interestin' papers lyin' around."

"No," she said with perfect candor, "I've searched everything. Even the
safe."

"Good." He rose heavily to his feet. "Keep it up, Sis. We've got all
the time in the world, plus--an' the best thing we can do is to use it.
By the way, how's my little friend Pauline?"

The girl made a wry face. "Ugh! Nasty little minx."

"Huh!" grinned Jim, "think what she'll be like at forty."

A fortnight dragged by. Jim busied himself with routine matters
without, however, allowing the main focus of his attention to waver
from the Lannigan matter. Occasionally he made it a point to meet Mary
in the park. She had nothing to tell him and he talked things over
with her only for her own sake--to keep her courage and optimism keyed
to the proper pitch. There was something heroic in her doggedness. He
shook his head in wonderment at the thought that until recently she had
been playing a lone hand--just as grim, just as determined--"I sort of
reckon," he mused, "that she sort of might be what you'd call kinder
crazy about that Tim Lannigan."

It was not until another week had passed that anything happened. It was
early October and the air was chill with the portent of coming winter.
Jim Hanvey was sprawled on the lounge in the untidy living room of his
apartment reading the pugilistic news in a current sporting weekly.
The air was fetid with the odor of his vile cigar, his stockinged feet
were cocked upon the table and he had allowed his flowered suspenders
to drop comfortably about his tremendous waist. It was a considerable
effort to answer the summons of the telephone and his voice was none
too gentle----

"Hey! Hello! What you ringin' so much about?"

"Jim? This is Mary."

His expression altered like magic. He caught the nuance of excitement
in her carefully modulated tones.

"Yeh?"

"Are you alone?"

"Entirely."

"Can I come up--now?"

"You tell 'em. I'll fix it with the telephone boy so's he won't start
no scandal."

A half hour later she was with him. She threw open the window despite
his protest. His eyes were fixed steadily upon the attractive vividity
of her face. Then he yawned and appeared to sink into an indifferent
lethargic doze. It was only when she had drawn up a chair and placed
her hands on his arm that the sleepy eyes uncurtained with an
indication of interest.

"A'right, Sister--shoot."

She found difficulty in selecting a starting point, and when she
did eventually speak it was with an incoherence which was rather
unusual--"He's slipping, Jim--and I'm watching."

"You don't say."

"Yes--I do. I knew it would come ... if I just watched close enough.
Of course I've had to keep pretty much out of the way and I haven't
learned all that I might, but--"

"At that," interjected Jim dryly, "you learned a heap more an' a heap
faster than I am now."

She laughed--a semi-hysterical little quaver--and pulled herself
together. "Jim, Noah Lathrop is up to something."

Jim nodded in satisfaction. "Good."

"He's had a visitor at the house for the last two evenings. Who do you
think it is?"

"How many guesses do I get?"

Her eyes burned into his, her voice trembled. "Teddy Nelson!"

Jim nodded ponderously and, although his expression lost none of its
impassivity, his tone indicated a lively interest.

"Teddy Nelson, eh?"

"Yes--Teddy. And they're talking turkey."

"Teddy usually does."

The girl sat back and inspected the bovine face of the detective. "You
got any recent suspicions of Teddy?"

Jim's head inclined. "Have you?"

"Yes."

"What?"

Unconsciously, she lowered her tone. "He's got the Rawlings' pearls."

Jim yawned with his eyes. "Right the first time, Sis. You take the head
of the class."

"You knew?"

"Sure. An' I ain't the only dick which does. They've been watchin'
Teddy ever since them pearls were stolen. The only reason they didn't
nab him long ago was because they didn't know where he had 'em
cache'd--it wasn't gonna do 'em a bit of good to grab Teddy unless they
got the pearls, too."

She shook her head slowly--"I didn't know they suspected Teddy of that
job...."

"There ain't but a half dozen men in the country could of done it,"
explained Jim, "an' Teddy was the only one with a perfect alibi, so
they knew it was him. But it ain't Teddy they're after--it's the stuff."

"So-o ... and you think he's trying to sell 'em to Lathrop?"

"It's a cinch. He can't sell 'em nowhere's else. There ain't a fence
would dare handle 'em and the easiest way they could be put on the
market would be through a first class wholesale jewelry house. Yeh--I
reckon Mr. Noah Lathrop is just about aimin' to slip his head into a
noose."

The girl rose to her feet and paced the room. "It's the first thing
I've discovered ... I wish I thought he'd dare buy those things--I wish
we could catch him with the goods."

Jim's toneless voice came as though from another room. "You keep those
eyes of your'n peeled, Mary. If he's gone this far with the deal the
chances are he'll go through. An' if you can get wise to the hour when
they pull it I'll be on hand...."

"You think they'll do it at home?"

"Surest thing you know. A guy as keen as Lathrop ain't riskin' a deal
like that in his office; he wouldn't even let Teddy come there if he
knew what he was comin' for. Yeh, Sis, I reckon they'll put it through
at home. So all you got to do is watch an' keep me posted."

"And what will you do?"

"My durndest--that's all I can promise."

"That's more than enough, Jim--a heap more than enough."

Jim flushed slightly--"Don't you go countin' on me too strong. You can
remember at least one case where I fell down something awful an' there
ain't no certainty I won't flop this one."

Mary had the grace to blush. "I'm sorry about that, Jim."

"Ah gwan! I ain't. It was a pleasure to have you put it over me. Say,
listen--some day I want the low-down on that, Mary."

The girl departed and then for three days he heard nothing from her. On
the fourth day she telephoned him to meet her in Central Park.

"Teddy was there again last night."

"Sure enough?"

"Yes--for three hours. And this morning I heard Mr. Lathrop breaking a
dinner engagement he had for to-night."

"So you sort of reckon maybe to-night's the night?"

"Yes.... I'm pretty sure it's an attempt to sell Lathrop the Rawlings'
pearls. I did a bit of listening last night and I heard something of
what they were saying--about having the cash there.... I guess poor
Teddy is glad to get them off his hands at any price."

"Yeh--I reckon he is. They ain't nothin' now but a li'bility. Hmm!
Reckon I better stick around this evenin'."

They put their heads together then in an earnest discussion of details.
And when Jim rose heavily to his feet a half hour later and waddled
away through the trees the girl looked after him with an expression
which would have brought a warm glow to the sentimental heart of the
big detective had he glimpsed it. Somehow the sun seemed to shine with
unusual friendliness that afternoon upon the slim figure of the girl
in the nurse's uniform, and she felt suddenly very close to her big,
handsome husband in the Atlanta prison.

She had never quite recovered from her amazement at Jim's position in
this case. She had always liked Jim but the idea that he might some
day assist her--a professional criminal--in a matter involving the
possible freeing of her criminal husband--had been beyond the realm of
possibility.

True, thus far Jim had done very little and that little with his
customary modest unobtrusiveness. His chief aid had been in moral
support, in a willingness to talk things over. What had really been
accomplished had been the result of her own unremitting vigilance ...
but the hour was approaching when Jim was to play a leading rôle. At
the moment of dénouement she would have been sadly handicapped without
him--and she knew it, for there was no possible chance of publicity
without an airing of her own unsavory reputation.

With Jim as an ally all was different. The very knowledge that he was
helping her imparted a strength and a courage far beyond anything she
had theretofore experienced. And he had promised to be watching from
across the street that night--to be awaiting her signal.

Darkness settled early over the Drive, a deep, cloudy darkness
punctured by the faint twinkling of lights from the Jersey shore,
the sparkle of apartment house windows, glaring arrows of brilliance
from the head-lamps of speeding automobiles and lumbering busses.
From a window in the Lathrop apartment Mary Lannigan fancied that she
could discern the overlarge figure of Jim Hanvey bulking in the gloom
across the way. She returned to her own little cubbyhole of a room and
waited--waited, it seemed, for an eternity.

And eventually there came the ringing of a telephone and Lathrop
himself answered. She heard his voice bidding the operator to send
the gentleman up. A few minutes later Lathrop opened the door of his
apartment and then Mary heard footsteps in the hallway and she opened
her door in time to see Lathrop and Teddy Nelson disappear into the
library.

Jaw firm and eyes steady, Mary Lannigan proceeded with meticulous care.
Fortunately, Mrs. Lathrop was out that evening--"Gadding about like she
always does ..." and the butler was attending to affairs of his own.
Mary had been left in charge of the complacently sleeping Pauline. She
crept to the door of the library and applied an ear to the keyhole.

From inside came the wellnigh unintelligible murmur of voices.
Occasionally one or the other of the men would become argumentative. It
was plain that they were bargaining. Mary fancied that she could see
the long-sought-for string of Rawlings pearls through the keyhole ...
and once she fancied that she heard the rustle of new paper money.

It was then that she went to a front window and, using an electric
torch, flashed to Jim Hanvey the agreed signal. She tiptoed into
Pauline's room and assured herself that the child was sleeping soundly.
Then into the hallway again to resume her vigil.

After an interminable wait there came a light tapping on the door. She
opened it softly and admitted the mammoth detective.

"Goshamighty," he whispered, "that boy downstairs didn't want to let me
come up." He patted her shoulder reassuringly. "How's tricks?"

She detailed developments in a voice barely above a whisper. He nodded
ponderous approval. "Fine stuff. Here's where ol' sleuth gits in his
dirty work, ain't it?"

She designated the library door. "What'll I do, Jim?"

"Just stick around to look after the remains--if any."

"You're not expecting anything rough?"

"Naw.... Teddy ain't that kind unless he's changed a lot. But I'm gonna
stage an awful play just to see whether a feller which owns three
automobiles can turn green."

She led him to the door and then withdrew into the shadows of an
adjacent room. Jim patted down the ill-fitting coat which hung so
grotesquely around his girthful figure and rapped once upon the door.

For a dramatic instant he stood motionless, then flung open the door
and entered--blinking like a monster owl in the brilliant light.

Before him was an interesting tableau. Lathrop, motionless, was bending
across the table inspecting a string of magnificent matched oriental
pearls. Beside him was a pile of crisp, new one-hundred dollar bills.
His lean, rather saturnine, face, still reflected the avarice of a
moment since although an expression of stark terror was now slowly
robbing him of his naturally aggressive unpleasantness.

Opposite sat Teddy Nelson--suave, dapper, perfectly at ease. Nelson's
experienced eyes rested briefly upon the intruder and a close observer
could have noticed the visible effort with which he pulled himself
together. Too, it was Nelson who broke the portentous silence. That
insouciant criminal rose to his feet, bowed with exaggerated politeness
and spoke in a quiet conversational tone--

"Mr. Hanvey--this is indeed a pleasure."

Jim was enjoying himself thoroughly. He produced a pink silk
handkerchief and mopped his forehead. "'Lo Teddy."

Nelson waved a comprehensive hand toward Lathrop, the pearls and the
money. As yet the astounded jewelry importer had not moved; he sat
staring in bewilderment from one to the other.

"You will notice, Jim," said Nelson, "that you have nothing on me.
My host is in possession of the money and also of the pearls which I
presume you are seeking."

Hanvey grinned. "You're a hard egg, Teddy."

"You are hunting for some pearls, are you not, Jim?"

"I are."

"Well--in all probability you have them. I am willing to explain, Jim,
that I never saw those pearls before--I'm as positive of that as I am
that I shall never see them again." He made a rueful little grimace.
"Business is pretty rotten these days."

Lathrop was getting a grip on himself. He rose unsteadily and addressed
the detective. "Who are you?"

The suggestion of a sneer wreathed Nelson's lips. "You're a pretty
good little staller yourself, Lathrop."

"What are you talking about?"

All sign of amusement departed from Teddy Nelson's face. He whirled
furiously upon Lathrop. "You know damn good and well what I'm talking
about. You trapped me into your apartment and brought a dick here--all
right, so much for that. You thought you'd have me with the goods and
you'd get the glory of having nabbed me. Why you poor fish, they've
been after me for six months for this little job. They've laid off
because they didn't know where the pearls were. They've got 'em
now--but by God! they didn't catch 'em on me. They're in your hands.
You've got the money. I'm broke. There ain't a piece of evidence
against me. And Jim Hanvey is square. I'm asking him to make you prove
that _you_ didn't steal those jewels."

Lathrop stammered. He stared first at Nelson, then at the lethargic
Hanvey. "A--a detective?" he muttered.

"Uh-huh." It was Jim who answered. "A regular, honest-to-Gawd
detective." He flashed his badge and strode over to the table. He
inspected the pearls briefly. "It's that Rawlings' stuff, ain't it,
Teddy?"

Nelson shook his head. "You can't prove anything by me, Jim. Say
listen--" he became very earnest. "Did this half-size imitation of a
cigar clerk double-cross me?"

Jim shook his head slowly. "No-o. Not hardly. Because when you stop
to consider things--that would have been a bum play for him. Y'see,
Teddy, we've been watchin' this bird a long time--he was sort of mixed
up in that Tim Lannigan affair and we figured he was worth lookin'
after. An' we knew you had the Rawlings' stuff. So when you and him
got together we figured that two and two was pullin' their usual act.
Y'see, we've got you, Teddy, for the Rawlings job--while all we send
Lathrop to jail for is receivin' stolen goods."

Lathrop tried to speak--and could not. His mouth opened and
closed--then opened and closed again. His Adam's-apple bobbed
alarmingly. His voice, when it did come, was shrill with hysteria--

"It's a lie--a lie! I don't know anything about this man. I don't know
anything about Lannigan. What he said I did was true--I was trying to
prove that he stole these jewels."

"The dirty liar...."

"Lay off, Teddy," advised Jim. Then, to Lathrop--"You might as well
come clear, buddy. I know how much money there is in that little pile
and I know what bank you drew it from and at what time this morning. I
know, too, that this ain't the first time you've pulled a stunt like
this--but I know it's gonna be the last. Now Teddy, if you come clean
I'll see that things are made light for you--light as I can have 'em
made. Give me the low-down on the job."

Nelson eyed the detective levelly. "Straight, Jim?"

"Here's my hand on it. No promises--only the best I can do for you."

"Well," Nelson cleared his throat, "in that case I'd better come clean.
There ain't no use confessing that I stole them pearls off old man
Rawlings about a year ago. You know that an' the insurance company
detectives know it. They knew it so well that there wasn't a chance for
me to dispose of them through the regular channels, so when I heard
that Lathrop was inclined to use his position as an honorable man to
get away with an occasional dirty little job, I went to him and offered
to sell and sell cheap--"

"No! It isn't true...." Lathrop's face was pitiful. "Nelson, please!
This will all be used against you."

"Sure--sure. And it'll be used against you, too," explained Jim
casually.

Lathrop cowered as Nelson continued the story of their negotiations.
When he finished Hanvey returned his attention to the figure of the
terrified jeweler.

"My family--my child--my business--"

"You're a fine slice of limburger," complimented Jim. "I suppose you've
been weeping your eyes out thinking about Tim Lannigan, haven't you?"

"Lannigan?"

"Yes--Lannigan, the lad you double-crossed--got him to try an' smuggle
in stuff that he didn't know was stolen. Well, you're clear of the
Lannigan case but we'll make you sweat for this. Ten years, maybe."

"Please ... for God's sake--anything but that--"

Jim regarded him steadily. "Tim Lannigan is a good friend of mine,
Lathrop. One of the best friends I have. It just occurs to me that we
might make a little deal.... Interested?"

"Yes. Yes. Go on."

"Well--all we've been after in this Rawlings affair is the stuff.
We don't care particularly about sending Teddy Nelson up. And since
we've got the pearls ... how about this: You sit down there and sign
a confession that you hired Tim Lannigan to smuggle in those jewels.
You can say that you didn't know they were stolen--that it was simply
a job on your part to beat the customs. That'll be proof enough that
Tim didn't know they were stolen--and, of course, proof that he wasn't
mixed up in the original robbery which'll keep him from serving twenty
years or so in a French prison for something he didn't do."

Jim paused. He fancied that he could hear the rustling of skirts in the
hallway. Lathrop looked up pleadingly--

"What can they do to me for that?"

"They can give you two years in the Federal prison--same as they did
Lannigan. But they probably won't. They did that to Lannigan because he
was known as a professional crook. You'll most likely get off with a
heavy fine--and it'll clear Tim of that French stuff."

"Are you telling me the truth?"

Teddy Nelson broke in, somewhat explosively--"Hell! Jim Hanvey ain't no
liar."

"You can choose," explained Jim easily, "between that and a certain
long stretch for this Rawlings affair."

Lathrop looked up piteously. "I'll do it," he said at length. "Tell me
what to write."

Hanvey dictated slowly and carefully, and when he was finished he
summoned Mary Lannigan to whom he read the confession. Then, with Mary
as a witness, Noah Lathrop signed.

The following day Jim accompanied Mary Lannigan to the Pennsylvania
Station whence she departed for Atlanta to break the gladsome news to
her husband. She was tearfully grateful--"Aw! stow it, Sister--I didn't
do a darn thing except have a little fun...."

From the train he went to an unpretentious hotel in the West Fifties
where, a few moments later, he found himself alone with Teddy Nelson.

Teddy was very much at ease. He waved his hand airily--"Have a seat,
Jim. Make yourself comfortable." Then, defensively--"But leave that
nickel-plated cigar case in your pocket. I don't mind talking to a
detective but I'm not willing to smell his cigars."

Jim ignored the request. And as the first horrid blast of cigar smoke
assailed Teddy, Jim vouchsafed a bit of information--

"I fixed it for you, Teddy. Saw Simpson and Clarke this morning--gave
'em the pearls. They were so tickled it was a cinch getting them to
promise to lay off you."

Nelson sighed relievedly. "Great stuff, Jim. I've been hanging on to
those things for a year--knowing that I didn't have a chance to get rid
of 'em, and hating to heave 'em in the river. Now they're safely gone
and I've helped a pal. Gee!" he smiled--"I'll bet Tim is gonna be happy
when he hears the news."

"You tell 'em, Teddy. But not near as happy as Mary was when things
come out all right. She sure done wonders for Tim--"

"Wonders, me eye. It was you who did it all, Jim. Wasn't it you who
came to me in the first place and suggested that I approach Lathrop on
this deal? Didn't you wise me up to the whole works and show me how
it'd be a better thing for everybody--me included? Mary did her part
all right, Jim--but the whole idea of my selling those pearls to Noah
Lathrop was yours--any thanks that Tim Lannigan is handing out is due
you. And I'm going to tell him so."

Jim regarded him gravely. "You're gonna keep your mouth shut, Teddy.
Shut tight. One yawp out of you to either Tim or Mary about that and
by gosh! I'll turn you and Lathrop both up. Which might not be so
hard on you, Teddy--but would be hell on Lathrop--him owning three
automobiles."




                          THE KNIGHT'S GAMBIT


Jim Hanvey posed pridefully before the triple mirrors. He hitched his
trousers one notch higher, affectionately patted the lapels of his
new coat and carefully adjusted the cerise necktie. Then he faced the
covertly grinning clerk and his voice held that beatific nuance with
which a small boy calls attention to the magnificence of his first
baseball uniform.

"Swell, ain't it?" queried Jim.

The clerk, a dapper little fellow who was garbed according to the
dictates of the latest fashion folder, was professionally enthusiastic.
"Perfect, Sir. You never looked better in your life." Under his breath
he added a fervent: "And that aint no lie."

Jim delighted himself with a further survey of his mirrored self. And,
in truth, whatever the ensemble might have lacked from an esthetic
standpoint it more than atoned in brilliancy.

The enormous and pudgy figure of the detective was enfolded in a
new and ill-fitting suit of near tweeds. A pink silk shirt was
stretched tightly over the upper portion of his anatomy. A collar of
inconsequential height but amazing girth encased the vivid tie. Below
the trouser cuffs was a brief expanse of white sox which topped a pair
of peak-toed russet shoes. Above Jim's collar flopped twin chins which
bounded on the south a countenance of bovine heaviness. The whole
was topped by a new gray felt hat which seemed in constant danger of
tobogganing from the crest of the bulbous head.

Jim Hanvey's tiny, fishlike eyes held a gleam of self-approval. Then,
as he inspected himself, they closed slowly, held shut for a moment,
and uncurtained with even greater deliberateness. His big hands were
elevated idly until the fingers found the elaborate golden toothpick
which hung suspended from the heavy chain connecting the upper vest
pockets. His chest inflated and a sigh escaped his pursy lips--"I've
been wantin' an outfit like this for a mighty long time," he commented.
"An' I just never sort of come around to gettin' it."

The clerk discreetly lowered his head to scribble hieroglyphics on a
sales pad. "Anything else, Sir?" he interrogated meekly.

"No-o. Don't believe there is.... Oh! yes--a silk handkerchief."

That article was purchased and Jim fitted it with meticulous care into
the breast pocket of his coat so that the pink edging was displayed to
weirdest advantage. "How much does it amount to, Son?"

"Seventy-two, fifty."

Jim whistled. "Gosh! Swell clothes sure do come high." Reluctantly
he extracted a battered wallet. "Here y'are. I want my other clothes
sent to the hotel." Then, with pitiful eagerness, "I couldn't look no
better, could I?"

"No," answered the clerk with perfect candor. "You surely couldn't."

Jim Hanvey departed. He walked with the peculiarly stiff and
self-conscious gait inevitably attendant upon the wearing of new
clothes. His big shoes creaked with every step. His expression was
one of radiant self-satisfaction. For years he had craved an orgy of
new-clothes purchasing and now that the exigencies of his profession
had furnished an adequate excuse he had done himself exceeding proud.

He entered a suburban street car and sat stiffly in his seat
misinterpreting the amusement of the other passengers for envy. It
never occurred to Jim that his clothes were in shockingly bad taste
or that his appearance was grotesque. He was a simple and lonely soul
with the male's innate love of bright colors and flaring finery rampant
within him, his desires untempered by the inhibitions of culture. He
loved the flagrant and flamboyant in dress and secretly harbored an
ambition to carry a cane. He owned two but thus far in his career they
had remained cloistered. He had never quite mustered sufficient courage
to drag one of them into the street. But some day....

Forty minutes later the street car reached the end of its run and Jim
alighted. The suburb silently proclaimed the opulence of its residents.
Wide, tree-shaded streets bounded by broad, velvety lawns behind which
hugely handsome residences reared their architecturally perfect forms;
gardens which paid flowering tribute to landscape experts; sinuously
winding driveways, spurting fountains, cleanly clipped hedges. An
atmosphere of forbidding and exclusive wealth. Parked by the curbs were
limousines of the more expensive makes. Early that morning Jim Hanvey
would have felt ill-at-ease in the neighborhood. Now, resplendent in
his new regalia, he believed serenely that he fitted comfortably into
the picture. His manner was that of the man who belongs. He regretted
that he had not bought a cane: a heavy, gold-headed cane. Or, perhaps,
a man of his mammoth physical proportions would better carry a malacca
stick--one of the slender, whippy ones....

He sought information from a disdainful chauffeur as to which of these
estates was the property of Mr. Theodore Weston. But even with the
confidence begotten of his magnificent raiment he hesitated briefly
before turning up the walkway which led from the street to the massive
brownstone mansion nestling far back behind a screen of elms, poplars
and shrubbery. There was something about the Weston estate which seemed
to elevate it above even its formidable neighbors; a mute announcement
of conscious superiority; a formal indifference; an air of casualness
such as that affected by the young girl who spends an hour before her
mirror carefully arranging her hair in the most attractive way. Jim
experienced difficulty in conceiving this palatial place as a home.
It wasn't at all Jim's idea of what a home should be. His own tastes
inclined to a six-room bungalow set level with the street and perhaps
twenty feet back from the sidewalk where a chap could loll of an
evening in his shirt sleeves and suspenders with his feet cocked up on
the porch railing and the potted geraniums only slightly obstructing
his vision.

He moved stiffly up the elm-sentinelled walkway to the broad and
imposing veranda which spanned the palace of the industrial king,
meticulously scraped a bit of mud from his new shoes, tiptoed to the
front door and somewhat timorously pressed the button. Like magic the
door swung back and a butler appeared.

"Mr. Weston home?"

The butler's forehead corrugated slightly. His face lost some of the
fixed rigidity of expression natural to it. He surveyed the visitor
with an admixture of bewilderment and insolence.

"Yes."

Jim fidgeted nervously. The butler maintained an uncompromising
silence--which Jim eventually terminated.

"Tell him Jim Hanvey wants to see him."

"Hmm! Your card, please."

Jim fumbled wildly. "Gosh! I left my card in my other suit." He jerked
his thumb in apologetic explanation. "Just tell him it's Jim Hanvey and
everything'll be jake."

The butler disappeared in the cavernous recesses of the mansion leaving
the monster detective thoroughly ill-at-ease. In a few moments he
returned, expression slightly altered. "Right this way, Sir."

Hanvey followed. Their feet were soundless on the rich rugs. Jim was
left alone in the dim, lavishly comfortable confines of the library. He
seated himself on the lounge, hitched up his trousers at the knees to
preserve the crease, and waited.

Less than five minutes later Weston appeared. He was a thin, undersized
man with a peculiarly high forehead and deep cavernous eyes. His step
was mincing but his manner betokened a wealth of nervous energy. He
paused on the threshold and stared with ill-concealed amazement at the
unwieldy figure which rose from the lounge to greet him.

It was a case of mutual surprise. Jim Hanvey had been prepared to meet
a towering, aggressive, physically powerful individual--a man whose
physique was in consonance with his reputation in the industrial world.
For Jim knew that Weston was all-powerful: fair but ruthless, a hard
fighter and a game one. The little man in the doorway was rather of the
lounge-lizard type....

As for Weston he could not believe that this mammoth individual who
bulked before him was the person who had been recommended as the best
detective in the country. Jim was not at all of the detective type. His
new raiment accentuated the flabbiness of the form, intensified the
general impression of lethargic indifference and general unfitness.
And so the two men stared, each struggling to readjust in a moment his
preconceived idea of the other. It was the financier who spoke first,
his voice snapping with a peculiar steely timbre not at all in accord
with his diminutive size.

"Mr. Hanvey?"

"Yeh.... Mr. Weston?"

"I am Mr. Weston."

"Mr. Theodore Weston?"

"Yes."

"Gosh...." Jim paused suddenly. Weston stared intently.

"Say it," he prompted.

"You're a runt," proferred Jim. "I thought I was gonna meet a big
feller."

"And you," countered Weston, "look more like a side-show freak than a
detective."

"You said it. I never was awful strong on looks an' my figger never
caused me to be mistook for no sylph."

They stood facing one another in the subdued light of the library. Jim
covertly straightened his tie and patted his new coat. Jim was very
well pleased with himself. He wondered whether this man had noticed his
new suit--

"Nice suit of clothes you've got on, Mr. Weston."

"Eh?" The smaller man was startled. "Oh! Thank you."

"You're welcome." Jim hesitated. "I'm awful strong for swell clothes,
aint you?"

"I don't notice them much."

Jim sighed disappointedly. "Thought not...."

Weston motioned his visitor to a chair. He extracted from his desk a
humidor of fragrant Havana cigars, and as he was doing so, Jim reached
for a battered, near-silver cigar case which reposed in the inside
pocket of his coat. Each extended his to the other. Jim's were short
and fat and very, very black. Weston took one from the case and Jim
accepted one from his host. Each sniffed at his gift, each made a
poorly concealed wry face and each placed the cigar carefully beside
him with the remark--"Smoke it later." Then each man lighted one of
his own. As the fierce aroma of Jim's projectile assailed Weston's
nostrils, the little man winced. But Jim did not notice. He was
inexpressibly content with the strong fumes he generated. And so they
smoked on as they chatted idly. Weston finally caused the conversation
to veer to the subject.

"You have been recommended to me, Mr. Hanvey, as the one man capable of
helping me out of a dilemma. I cannot question the judgment of the men
who have bespoken you."

"Fine. That's awful nice of you, Mr. Weston."

"I'll admit--" honestly "--that I am somewhat surprised by your
appearance. This is a matter which requires infinite tact and delicacy.
It's not--er--what you might call strong-arm work."

"That's good," endorsed the detective. "I'm in awful poor trim."

"It is, in fact, a problem such as detectives seldom meet with; an
affair of diplomacy. It involves no particular moral turpitude. Yet
the intervention and assistance of friends cannot aid me at all--which
is why I have sought outside--and professional--help."

"In other words," summarized Jim slowly, "somebody's tryin' to slip
somethin' over on you."

"Precisely. Not in a business way. That would be relatively easy
to cope with. In entrusting you with this story I must impress
upon you the necessity for strictest secrecy. My confidence must
remain inviolate. As a matter of fact, I find myself excessively
embarrassed.... I--I--scarcely know where to begin."

"Hmm! An' you're doubtful about beginnin' at all, aint you, Mr. Weston?"

"No. Not exactly. With the endorsement you have received from business
associates of mine...."

"You still think I look like such a slob I aint the man to show no
finesse. Aint that it?"

"You state it rather crudely, Mr. Hanvey, but you have hit the
bull's-eye."

"Well," Jim slumped in his chair. His eyes closed with maddening
slowness--remained shut for a second--then opened even more slowly....
"I'm willin' to do my best to help you out. But if you want me to enter
a beauty contest, I guess we'd better call it off."

"It isn't that, Mr. Hanvey. You see, the primary essential is that you
come here as my guest for two or three weeks."

"In this house? Gosh!"

"That will be necessary."

Hanvey deliberated. Once again he gave vent to the ocular yawn which
interested--and somewhat exasperated--his host. "I reckon I'll have to
put up with it then," he sighed.

Weston smiled slightly. "I don't believe it will be as terrible as you
anticipate. The--er--reimbursement in this affair, Mr. Hanvey, will be
adequate. More than adequate, should you happen to be successful."

Jim waved a pudgy hand. "Never mind that. I'll take a chance if you
will."

Again silence settled between them. Weston sat forward in his chair
with his keen eyes glittering across the room. Finally he rose abruptly
and stepped mincingly across the library to the window. Jim remained
slouched on the lounge, apparently asleep. A miasma of rancid smoke
hovered about his Brobdingnagian figure.

The descending sun of early evening bathed the dapper figure of the
little industrial giant in a soft, mellow light. He stood by the window
staring out--at something--silent, intense, a bit morose. And finally
he spoke without turning his head.

"Hanvey?"

"Yeh?"

"Come here."

Jim rose with a grunt and waddled across the room. His enormous bulk
completely shadowed that of the smaller man. And now there had come a
slight change in the atmosphere. Weston's use of Jim's last name and a
sudden pathetic drooping of the narrow shoulders bespoke the fact that
he had reconciled himself to his disappointment in Jim's appearance
and was willing to place his trust in the big detective. He spoke in a
sharp but toneless voice.

"Look yonder," he directed, pointing down the winding, poplar-lined
bridle path which twisted toward the house from a rich green valley
beyond.

Jim blinked slowly--and looked. His first impression was one of
enthusiasm for the pastoral beauty of the scene: a gradual blending of
formal gardening into the rich lusciousness of untrammelled nature; a
gentle tinting of the gold of early evening; the silver of a brook in
the valley below ... a wealth of color and of natural beauty.

Then his fishlike eyes discerned two persons on horseback, a man
and a woman, who were walking their mounts slowly toward the house.
They rode close together and they were conversing with an absorption
which made plain that the outside world did not exist for them. The
girl had half-turned in her saddle in order that her eyes might feast
unrestrainedly upon the man; while he, conscious of his power, was
injecting the full wealth of an engaging personality into the task of
holding her undivided attention.

They approached slowly, the mounts scarce moving, and as they came
closer something in the magnificent stature and military carriage of
the man stirred memory in the mind of the obese detective. But before
recognition came to him his attention was once more attracted to the
girl.

She was young--that much was evident even at the distance separating
her from Jim. There was something about the slim, boyish figure;
the artless eagerness with which she hung upon the words of her
companion, which proclaimed extreme youth. And, too, the way she sat
her horse--carelessly, easily, as though she belonged. The girl wore
no hat, her rich brown hair was piled carelessly atop the exquisitely
shaped head. Her left hand held the rein loosely, her right hung by her
side. It held a riding crop which she twiddled aimlessly. Up through
the poplar-lined bridle path they came ... the shadows spotting the
roadway like the stippling of a pen-and-ink artist.

"My daughter," said Weston simply and without turning. There was
affection in his voice--and worry--and abounding pride. Jim responded
to the tone with all the sincerity of his emotionful nature.

"Swell-lookin' kid," was his comment.

He turned his attention to the man, now limned in the glow of the late
evening sun. He was a perfect foil for the girl; a figure of powerful,
dominant masculine maturity offsetting her naïve girlishness. He wore
an immaculate riding costume. He rode like a Centaur, swaying to the
stride of his horse ... oblivious to everything save the girl by his
side. He was talking, head inclined toward her. And then Jim recognized
the man and he emitted a slow, amazed whistle. Theodore Weston turned.

"You know him?"

"Yes."

"Who is he?"

Jim favored the man with a prolonged scrutiny. It was scarcely
possible ... but there was certitude in the tone with which he made
answer to his host's question.

"That's Whitey Kirk."

"Who is Whitey Kirk?"

"The cleverest con man in the world," was the answer, and there was a
ring of professional admiration in his voice. "I didn't know he was a
friend of yours--"

"He isn't."

"There ain't anything to be ashamed of if he is. Y'know I'm awful
strong for Whitey--Warren is his real name--because of the fact that
he is so good. For ten years that baby has been pullin' jobs, big
jobs, wide-open jobs--and they've never fastened a thing on him. He's
a wizard, that's what. He's tackled everything from stock swindling to
smuggling and he's gotten away with it. I can't help liking a man with
his brains and ability. And nerve--Oh! Mamma!"

Weston walked heavily back to the table of black walnut which occupied
the middle of the library. Jim followed slowly, and then, seeing that
the attention of his host was not upon him, deftly exchanged the two
cigars which lay upon the desk--so that his own vicious black one was
once more in his possession. "Fair exchange," he told himself, "ain't
always robbery."

Absently Weston reached for the rich Havana which had thus been
returned to him, lighted it, and puffed meditatively for a few moments.
Hanvey slouched opposite in an easy chair, allowed his fat fingers to
toy idly with the golden toothpick which hung from his cable-strength
watch chain. He contemplated the little man, wondering what was coming,
and, without knowing why, feeling a sense of sorrow and of personal
responsibility.

"That," said Weston suddenly, waving toward the window which they had
just vacated, "is why I sent for you."

"Yeh?"

Silence. From outside came the crunch-crunch of horses' hoofs on the
gravel driveway, the sound of a man's voice--and a girl's--then nothing
save the soft sighing of the evening breeze through the trees which
surrounded the stately home. It was Theodore Weston who punctured the
silence--

"What is this man's criminal record?"

"He ain't got none. We know he's crooked, we even know most of what
he's done. But we ain't ever been able to get the goods on him."

"He's never been arrested?"

"Nary time."

"That will make it more difficult--very much more difficult. Perhaps
too much so." He was silent for a moment, and then--with a sudden
intensity which surprised Jim: "The man is a criminal, Mr. Hanvey. It
shall be your task to prove it!"

"Hmm!" Jim's glassy orbs closed--then opened--with exasperating
leisureliness. "Why?"

"Because--" and Jim liked the directness of Weston's speech, "that man
is engaged to marry my daughter."

"Gee!" commented Jim Hanvey. "That's tough."

"It is worse than that--it is horrible. She is not quite eighteen years
of age. He is--Oh! about forty I judge--"

"Forty-one."

"They met at Ormond Beach last year. We have a winter place there.
My daughter is a golf enthusiast. This man, it seems, was down there
playing golf--peculiar pastime for a criminal--"

"Whitey's a gent."

"Madge was injured one day on the links--struck by a golf ball on
number ten fairway. She was stunned. Number ten is farthest removed
from the clubhouse. This man Kirk was playing right behind her. He is
a powerful fellow and he carried her to the clubhouse in his arms.
From there she was taken home in a car which he provided. I thanked
him and he introduced himself. It never occurred to me that he was
not a gentleman. He told me he was a graduate of one of the large
universities--"

"He is."

"--And we were all emotionally grateful at the time. We magnified
the very simple favor which he had done for us. Certainly it never
occurred to us to scrutinize too closely the very natural friendship
which rapidly developed between him and my daughter. We didn't take
it seriously--somehow a parent finds difficulty in appreciating the
maturity of his own child.

"We all liked him. His natural gentility was the only credential we
asked. He and Madge were together everywhere: he appeared to be a
man of means, culture and leisure. We fancied that he had a paternal
interest in her. They golfed together, played tennis, swam, rode--a
very delightful winter idyll. And the day Madge told her mother and
me that she was engaged to marry this man--well, Mr. Hanvey, unless
you're a father--and have received a shock through your child--a shock
involving the happiness of that child--you cannot understand."

Jim fidgeted uncomfortably in his chair. The voice of his host rang
with fierce bitterness.... "You sure are up against it, Weston."

"I investigated him, suddenly realizing that Mrs. Weston and I had been
criminally negligent. I was amazed by the fact that I knew nothing
whatever of him save that he bore all the earmarks of a gentleman.
He vouchsafed no personal information. I brought the family back
north--and investigated further. The thing was horrible enough as
it was--a seventeen-year-old-girl engaged to a man of forty. She
wouldn't listen to reason.... I tried to be tactful in my handling of
the situation. You see," simply, "I am worth a great many millions of
dollars and it was only natural that I should be careful ... marrying
for money, you know--"

"Yeh--sure. I know."

"As though the situation itself were not sufficiently bad, came the
report that the man is a notorious criminal. I told Madge and she went
straight to him with it. He laughed--said he had bitter enemies who
were trying to injure him. Defied them to prove that he had ever been
crooked. Suggested that they produce a prison record. Of course it
couldn't be done. You can imagine the effect on an impressionable young
girl--in love for the first time. She fancied him a persecuted man--she
said flatly that she didn't believe a word of it and intended to stand
by him...."

"Good sport," breathed Jim heavily.

"She is. Too good. I talked to him--straight from the shoulder.
He gazed at me blandly and said that my accusations were false. I
offered him his own price. He didn't even have the grace to get
insulted--merely stated that he didn't have a price. Alleged that
he was genuinely in love with Madge. I threatened him. He laughed.
I ordered him never to see her again. He told me coldly that if I
persisted in any such foolish course he'd induce her to elope with him.
And finally, because it seemed the wisest thing to do, Mrs. Weston and
I sanctioned a secret engagement, hoping against hope that the true
nature of the beast would show--and Madge would be awakened.

"It hasn't worked, Hanvey. She is more infatuated than ever. That's why
you were recommended to me. They told me that you were the one person
who might be of real assistance."

Jim leaned forward in his chair. "Me? How can I help?"

"I have been told that you know crooks better than any other man in the
world. That you can work miracles with them--because you understand
them. I ask you pointblank, Jim Hanvey--will you undertake the task of
saving my daughter from this man?"

Jim lighted a fresh cigar. Through the haze of rancid smoke he stared
at the little financier. "I'll undertake it on one condition," he said
slowly.

"And that is--?"

"--That I be allowed a free hand. Absolutely."

"Done!"

"Good. Remember, Weston, I'm liable to pull a bone--the chances
are that I'll flunk it. Whitey Kirk is the cleverest crook on two
continents. He's in soft here--awful soft. He ain't gonna let go easy.
But if you're willin' for me to try--I'll try. If I flop--it won't be
because I haven't done my damnedest."

The smaller man rose, crossed the room and dropped a hand on Jim's fat
shoulders. "You won't fail, Hanvey."

"Why not?"

"Because," replied the other, "it means too much to Madge. If you're
what they say you are--you'll put it over."

Jim rose awkwardly. "I'll do my best. I'll have to stick around
here for a week or two." He looked down upon his new and shrieking
raiment--"Thank goodness I already bought a new suit. I'd hate to look
like a bum in a swell joint like this."

Twenty minutes later Jim Hanvey departed for the city in one of
Weston's limousines. He lolled against the rich upholstery enjoying to
the ultimate the luxury and uniqueness of the experience. At his modest
and untidy apartment he swiftly packed a near-leather suitcase with
those articles which he fancied would be essential to his new rôle of
society butterfly. He left the apartment, entered the limousine for the
return trip--then suddenly halted the chauffeur--"Just a minute, Buddy.
I forgot something."

He re-entered the building. When he returned to the car a few minutes
later he nervously clasped the thing which he had forgotten.

It was his light malacca cane.

He reached the Weston home shortly before the dinner hour and was shown
to his rooms; a bedroom, parlor and bath suite on the west wing of the
mansion. He gazed apprehensively about and experienced more than a hint
of trepidation. A valet arrived to inquire whether he might assist Mr.
Hanvey to dress for dinner.

"My Gawd, no!" roared Jim. "You'd make me feel downright bashful."

In the living room he was introduced to Mrs. Weston, a sweet-faced and
surprisingly young woman considerably larger than her husband. Mrs.
Weston pressed Jim's hands as she wished him well. "Theodore says
you'll succeed, Mr. Hanvey ... he says he knows you will."

"He's an awful wise guy."

"You don't know what it means to us."

"The heck I don't. Believe me, Mis' Weston--I know a heap about this.
An' say--if it ain't impolite to ask--how long is it before we eat?"

It was in the library immediately preceding dinner that the detective
met Whitey Kirk. That gentleman, tall and broad and handsomely
debonaire in his dinner jacket, strolled into the room puffing on a
cigarette. He paused and stared through the semi-gloom toward the large
and strange figure in the outrageous clothes. The figure moved forward
and, as though from a distance, Whitey heard the voice of his future
father-in-law--"... my friend Mr. Hanvey. Mr. Kirk...."

Then Jim's limp hand and the well-known voice--"Sure, me an' Whitey
Kirk is old friends, ain't we, Whitey?"

"You know one another?" Weston's simulation was very poor indeed.

"I've had the pleasure of Mr. Hanvey's acquaintance for a number of
years."

"Yeh--sure he has, Mr. Weston. We've had business dealin's with one
another--as you might say."

Kirk had regained his impassivity and by no slightest gesture did he
give testimony to the internal seethe nor the swift groping of his keen
brain for the answer to this new problem. The presence of Jim Hanvey
betokened trouble--great gobs of it--and trouble was the one thing
which Whitey Kirk was at that moment most desirous of avoiding. He
negotiated Jim into the glare of an electrolier while he himself stood
in the shadows, but he gained no information from the bovine expression
of the triple-chinned detective. Jim sat stolidly, lids curtaining his
expressionless, fishy orbs, fingers twiddling the golden toothpick.
Theodore Weston gazed interestedly from one to the other. He felt a
queer confidence in the ability of the ungainly detective, and didn't
understand the feeling. Jim was the apparent personification of the
ultimate in human stupidity, but Weston's keen, sparkling eyes had not
missed the flash of apprehension which had whitened Kirk's face at the
moment of recognition.

And then Madge Weston burst into the room--billowed through the door
like a stray zephyr. She called gay greetings and then, girllike, made
directly toward Warren Kirk--pausing abruptly at sight of the stranger.
She accepted her father's introduction matter-of-factly and immediately
set about the task of making the stranger feel at home. It was plain to
her that he was out of the picture--a veritable china-shop bull--and
she was more than a little sorry for him. Jim responded eagerly to her
advances, and the warmth of his response grew more keen when he noticed
that Kirk was highly displeased.

Here was the sort of girl who made an irresistible appeal to
Jim--pretty in a fresh, wholesome, sensible and entirely immature way;
eager, unspoiled, urgent with life and vitality; far, far removed
from the genus flapper--all of whom were anathema to Jim. Flappers
frightened the big fellow. They had a manner which he could not
fathom, their quick vapid repartee passed over his head, he held the
consciousness that he was the butt of their covert ridicule. But not
with Madge. She was herself wholesome and delightful and girlish. By
the time they entered the dining room Madge and the big detective were
the best of friends.

The dinner commenced as an ordeal for Jim until he realized that he
could never solve the fork riddle and devoted his entire attention
to enjoyment of the rich and rare food. Mrs. Weston smiled toward
her husband--she had the soul of the true hostess, the hostess who
enjoys the enjoyment of her guest. True, Madge was a trifle shocked
by his lack of table manners, but that was soon borne with--and then
forgotten. He _was_ having such a good time!

Alone, following the dinner, the three men were silent. Warren Kirk was
decidedly ill-at-ease. Finally he rose: "Mighty fine night, Jim."

"Huh?"

"Beautiful night--outside."

"Ain't so worse inside."

"Want to stroll round the grounds?"

"You mean you want to have a talk with me?"

"Not exactly--"

"Sure." Jim, with difficulty, hoisted himself from the chair. "But
remember I'm a rotten walker, Whitey."

A shade of annoyance flashed across the man's face. "My name is Warren."

"A'right, Warren. Le's travel."

They descended from the spacious veranda to the moon-drenched garden.
The night air was soft and warm and saturated with the odor of lilacs.
From far off came the tinkle of a piano and the sensuous strains of a
violin--and in the street somewhere children were playing and calling
gleefully to one another. Everywhere quietude and beauty and peace.
Side by side the two men walked: Jim's big figure waddling on short,
fat legs; Whitey's broad shoulders thrown far back, his firm, muscular
limbs moving with easy rhythm. And it was the taller man who broke the
silence. He spoke without turning and his voice was frigid and direct.

"What's the big idea, Jim?"

"Hmm! Just visitin' my ol' college chump who I ain't seen since we
graduated from Harvard together."

"Let's cut out the kidding. What are you here for?"

Jim's voice was mildly reproving. "Don't you know?"

"I can guess."

"A'right. You got my permission. One guess ought to be enough. If you
miss I'll give you another."

"You're here--" Whitey's icy voice came slowly, his words
close-clipped--"to break up my romance."

"Your what?"

"Romance."

"With that kid?"

"Yes--with that kid."

Jim's heavy head rolled in earnest negation. "Naw, son--you're all
wrong. I ain't here to bust up no romance."

"Listen to me, Jim Hanvey--you've got a reputation for telling the
truth--"

"I'm telling it now. I ain't here to bust up no romance, Whitey. I'm
here to keep you from gettin' away with whatever graft you're planning."

"I'm not planning anything except to marry this girl."

"Well--that's a pretty good graft, ain't it? Good lookin'
kid--young--heiress to about twenty million bucks. Mmm! I'd call it a
real swell graft."

"I'm in love with her--"

A harsh note crept into the detective's voice. "That's a lie, Whitey,
and you know it. If you was you'd clear out. You know you can't bring
her nothin' but misery. Now what I want to find out is this--are you
plannin' to go through with this deal an' marry her, or have you got a
price?"

"I have no price."

"You can't be bought off?"

"No."

"Well, that makes my job harder. I thought maybe you was lookin' for a
soft spot and didn't want to queer things by bargaining with the old
man. It'd be worth a heap to him to get rid of you. Not that you ain't
a good crook, Whitey--an' in a professional way I ain't got nothin'
but respect an' admiration for you. But as a gent, Whitey, you ain't
worth a damn."

For a few moments neither spoke. It was Kirk who broke the silence.
"You must know already that you can't queer me with the kid."

"Does look like a tough assignment."

"There isn't anything you can do."

"Yes there is."

"What?"

"Well, for one thing, I can make it downright embarrassin' for you--so
durned embarrassin' that maybe you'll decide you'd better break it off
with the girl and begin to talk dollars and cents."

"Not a chance."

"No?" A pause, and then--"I'm glad you think so, Whitey. But lookin'
over that young lady kinder careful it strikes me that if she was ever
convinced you was a crook she'd give you the go-bye so fast you'd think
you was a popboy at an automobile racetrack. Yep--that gal sure never
would stand for no crooks payin' her rent--not if I've got her right."

"Perhaps not," admitted the other, "but you can't hang a thing on me.
You know I'm a crook and I know it. But nobody has ever gotten a thing
on me. Not a thing. In ten years I haven't slipped once--not a single
time."

Jim gazed at him keenly: "That's what you think," he said with peculiar
emphasis.

They returned to the house; Hanvey expressionless as ever, Kirk
struggling to conceal the worry inspired by Jim's air of confidence.
Whitey knew that he had never slipped in his decade of criminality--he
knew but he wasn't sure. Perhaps, somewhere in that period, there had
been an error of judgment, a weakness which he did not suspect. He
knew the axiom of the criminal world--a detective may make a thousand
mistakes and yet be successful; a criminal cannot err once. Warren Kirk
realized that he was only human--and therefore fallible. And if Jim
knew something and could prove it....

Later in the evening Kirk persuaded Madge to accompany him to the
veranda. Scarcely had they left the room when Jim fired a question at
her parents--

"Knowing what you do about this guy, why'd you agree to their
engagement?"

"Madge is headstrong," was the simple answer. "We thought it best to
appear to consent."

"Mmm!" Jim nodded slowly. "It sure is a pleasure to work with folks
which uses their heads for somethin' more than havin' a picture taken
of."

Meanwhile, on the veranda, Whitey Kirk was talking with low-voiced
earnestness to the girl. "It's this way, Madge--Hanvey is a detective
and a good one. He is one of the leaders of the police clique which
for years has been attempting to hang something on me. Your father has
fallen under their influence. He has hinted to you that my past is not
all it might have been. He has hired Jim Hanvey to come down here and
prove to you that I am crooked." He bent his handsome head close to
her wide-open, frightened eyes. "I believe I am a gentleman, little
girl. I want you to promise that the minute you lose your trust in me
you will let me know--and I shall leave you. But if you're willing to
stand by me...." With a little sob she seized his hand and pressed it
tightly.

"Don't talk that way, Warren. _Don't!_ I can't bear the thought that
anyone even thinks you are not all right. And don't suggest that I
won't stand by you. I love you, dear...."

He took her in his arms then and kissed her, and even as he did
so there was a coldly calculating light in his gray eyes. He was
playing this game for big stakes. It was the chance of a lifetime--an
opportunity to insure affluence with safety. And Madge was a pretty
good sort. He wasn't in love with her, of course, but on the other
hand he might do worse in the selection of a life partner. Nice, clean
kid--and sensible.... "Gee! it'd sure bust things higher than a kite if
Jim could ever prove to her...."

And so after the silence of midnight had fallen over the house, Whitey
Kirk sat staring from the window of his room. Beside him was an ash
tray filled with cigarette stumps.

Jim had him worried. Whitey knew--none better--the ability of the
ponderous detective, knew that he would not be absolutely safe until
he was actually married to the girl. It wasn't that Jim had discovered
proof of any past transgression so much as there was danger that Jim
might frame him.

Whitey knew well the romantic strain rampant in the soul of the
ponderous visitor, realized that Jim believed he must save the girl.
And he realized that, all other methods failing, there was every
likelihood that Jim would frame a robbery or a bit of crookedness in
such a manner that he would appear guilty. "He might even plant a jewel
robbery," reflected Kirk, "and plant the loot in my room. Then, if they
caught me...."

Early the following morning he went riding with Madge and forewarned
her of that possibility. Madge was horrified and indignant, but
there was in her eyes a queer, questioning light which had been
absent the previous night. Madge was seeing a great deal of smoke and
instinctively she found herself wondering whether, after all, there
might not be a bit of fire. She cast aside the idea as unworthy--but it
persisted subtly and she was downcast and constrained for the last hour
of their time together.

But she was blessed with a strain of sterling loyalty and active
fighting qualities. Immediately upon her return home, she sought an
interview with her father. It was brief, surfeited with mutual pain,
and very much to the point. Father and daughter were honest with one
another.

"Why are you opposed to my engagement, Dad?"

"The disparity in age, for one thing."

"What else?"

"I don't like Kirk."

"You believe he is not--all that he might be?"

"Yes, Dear."

"Why?"

"I have had him investigated."

"Yet you never heard of a man who was as evil as they say Warren is who
has never been caught, have you?"

"No."

"Then why persecute him? Why not play fair? Why make me unhappy?"

"Believing what I do, Madge--"

"The police are down on him--for no reason. They've been persecuting
him for years. If what they say were true, Dad--" and her voice
crescendoed bitterly--"they'd have proved something. But it's not true,
and I want you to know that I shall stand by him in spite of you and
Mother and this fat Mr. Hanvey and all the rest of the world."

Weston crossed the room and took her face between his hands. "I like
you to talk that way, Daughter. I like my little girl to be a good
sportsman. I'm not trying to persecute Warren Kirk: I'm trying to get
at the truth. You have no objections to that, have you?"

She thought it over for a moment--"And if you discover that these
allegations are untrue?"

"Then you may marry him whenever you wish."

She walked slowly from the room. She and her father had always been
pals. He was fair to a fault--and honest. She responded to the fairness
of his present attitude. She loved the Warren Kirk she thought she
knew. If he was not that man.... If, beneath the polished exterior,
there was blackness.... She went quietly to her room to ponder....

When she came downstairs shortly before the luncheon hour Jim Hanvey
was waiting for her. His huge figure overflowed a chair in the
reception hall and he lumbered to his feet at her descent. Somehow,
despite the nature of his mission, she could not find it in her heart
to dislike him. There was something infinitely pathetic and appealing
about the man--a vague, elusive quality which excited the maternal
instinct in her breast. The cheap, ready-made clothes which flapped so
grotesquely about the ill-shapen figure were not funny ... she liked
Jim Hanvey and she admitted it frankly. He bowed now with elephantine
lack of grace.

"Good mornin', Miss Madge."

"Good morning."

Jim glanced around apprehensively. "I've been sittin' here waitin' for
you. I wonder if you'd talk to me for a minute?"

She arched her brows in surprise. "Certainly."

"Let's go where no one can hear us."

They repaired to the library. Jim hitched his chair very close to hers.
"I want you to understand just one thing, Miss Madge--I'm a friend of
your'n." He cleared his throat. "I want to come clean with you--if
you'll let me."

"Please do."

"Well, first off I want to tell you why I'm here. I'm here--" his fishy
eyes closed slowly, opened even more slowly and then fixed glassily and
compellingly on hers--"I'm here to break off this match between you an'
Whitey."

Her lips parted and she leaned forward. "Why?" she cried. "Do you, too,
believe that he is--a--a--not what he should be?"

Jim Hanvey's ponderous head rolled from side to side.

"No ma'am!" he said explosively, "I don't!"

"What?" Her voice rang with incredulous amazement.

"Whitey ain't no crook--and that's what I wanted to tell you. He's
on the level, that kid is. They've been out to get him for the last
ten years and they've not succeeded. Why? The reason is because he's
straight. But they've had it in for him. If he'd ever slipped--even an
inch--they'd have got him. That's what I wanted to tell you--that I'm
here as your friend. Of course I think he's pretty old for you--but
that's your business and his. Your father thinks I'm gonna try to hang
somethin' on Whitey. I'm not. But it's better for a friend of his to
stick around than to tell the old man how I really stand and have him
hire some one who has it in for Whitey. He wouldn't have a chance then.
They'd frame him. And I just wanted to explain this to you so you'd
know you can trust me."

Impulsively she clasped his big right hand in both of hers. Her eyes
were shining: "I don't know how to thank you. And I _do_ trust you--Oh!
so much! It's horrible, what they're saying about Warren--and I know
it isn't so. I--well, do you mind if I tell Warren that you're here to
help him--to help us?"

"No," returned Jim dryly, "I don't mind. Tell him. He'll be awful
interested."

And Whitey was interested when she told him the following morning. He
was more than that, and the amazement which was writ large upon his
features was reflected in the fury which surcharged his voice.

"It's a damned lie--" He did not catch the startled, hurt glance which
she bestowed upon him. "Jim believes I'm crooked. He's here to prove it
to you. And when he says he's our friend, he lies."

She cringed slightly. The intensity of the man troubled her. It was
something which her immaturity could not understand; a new vision of
this hitherto soft-spoken, gentle, thoughtful man. A tremor of doubt
assailed her. Girl-like, she could not comprehend the bitterness which
seemed so unnecessary. For the moment Whitey Kirk had stepped out of
character.

Later she told Jim that Kirk was distrustful and Hanvey insisted
that the three of them meet for a chat. Kirk violently opposed the
suggestion. Things which he could not fathom were happening too swiftly
for his comfort. He was afraid of Jim and did not know how to combat
this new tack--this brummagem friendliness. It was Madge who insisted
that the trio talk things over, and Madge who made evasion impossible.
Lowering and sullen he greeted the impassive Jim who puffed placidly
upon one of his murderous cigars and appeared happily oblivious to
the rancor in the other's manner. But Madge was noticing--and she was
vaguely uncomfortable for Jim.

"What's your game, Jim?" Whitey Kirk came straight to the point.

"Game? Who said I was playin' a game?"

"You know perfectly well that when you told Miss Weston you were here
in the rôle of friend, you lied."

"Mph! You don't care who you call a liar, do you?"

"No I don't, and----"

"Well----" softly--"I'm too much your friend to get sore at you about
doin' it. Ain't that the sensible thing, Miss Madge?"

"It is." She clipped her words short with a mannerism keenly remindful
of her father. "And I must say, Warren, that you seem unnecessarily
severe."

He swung wrathfully upon her. "I tell you that your father has employed
this man to destroy our happiness--to break off our engagement----"

"He told me so himself," she answered with some asperity.

"He did?"

"Certainly. And he said he was remaining here because he is our friend
and because if he resigned any other man who assumed the task would be
our enemy. Isn't that simple?"

"Yeh," chimed in Jim, "ain't it?"

Kirk gazed at him through half-closed eyes. "I still don't get the
drift----"

"It's just this," explained Hanvey. "Everybody says you're a crook--but
you ain't--are you?"

"No."

"Folks just think you are. They're terrible unjust to you. You're
really a gent and you're engaged to a swell young girl. All you want is
a chance to marry her. Well, I'm here to see that you get that chance."

"That isn't true!" snapped Kirk bluntly.

"Why not?"

"Because you know good and well----" He pulled himself up sharply,
suddenly remembering that his fiancée was an auditor "--that you think
I'm not on the level."

"Aw, Son, you're doin' yourself an awful injustice. I never knew a
straighter, nicer feller than you in my life. I've always been your
friend. I've always told these other dicks who've been after you that
it wasn't no use--that they'd never get the goods on you so they might
as well quit tryin'. Honest, I have."

Kirk turned away. "One warning, Madge," he flung harshly over his
shoulder, "this man isn't to be trusted."

She stared after his retreating figure, her own countenance aflame
with embarrassment. Jim Hanvey, alone of the trio, seemed unperturbed.
His attitude of disinterestedness was superb, and when she would have
apologized for Kirk he cut her short. "That's all right, Miss Madge.
I don't hold it against poor Whitey. They've been houndin' him for so
long he's just naturally suspicious of everybody. Don't you go lettin'
this little scene worry you. Just remember that I'm your friend.
Real--sure-enough friend."

She left him there and scarcely had she disappeared within the house
when Kirk returned. His face was pallid and the gray eyes were blazing
beneath the thinly pencilled brows. Jim greeted him with a broad grin.
"Back again, Whitey?"

"Yes. What I want to know----"

"I'll tell you one thing you _ought_ to know--that is you pulled an
awful bone just now. The way you acted you almost convinced me I was
wrong and that you really are a crook."

"Come off that, Jim. What are you driving at?"

"Just trying to help you out. You an' Miss Madge. Terrible swell kid.
I'm strong for her."

"You can't hang anything on me."

Hanvey met his eyes squarely. Then the detective's lids closed with
interminable slowness. At the termination of the protracted ocular yawn
he gave vent to a single comment. "Nobody in this world ever batted a
thousand," he said.

That night the three principals in the little drama gave themselves
over to intensive thought. Jim speculated least of all. He was more
than merely satisfied with the results of his preliminary work,
although he was yet somewhat appalled by the difficulty of the task he
had undertaken--and with the urgency of success. He shuddered in his
big, simple heart at thought of the girl's future should his efforts
meet with failure. Whitey was all right in his own sphere--but this
girl did not belong there and he knew that Whitey could never fit
himself into her world.

As for Whitey Kirk, that gentleman was victim to a severe and obsessing
worry. He had been apprehensive from the moment of Jim's arrival on the
scene and had already laid a predicate of defense against any possible
move of the detective. But the first move had caught him unprepared--it
had come from an unexpected quarter and he found himself off guard.
Jim's expressed friendship was the one thing with which he did not
know how to cope. He realized that he had pulled a strategic blunder
that afternoon--all through the evening Madge had been cool and unlike
her naturally effusive and effervescent self. Madge was thinking--and
Whitey didn't want Madge to think. Her nimble brain contained too much
of her father's powers of logical deduction.

Kirk could not vision the goal toward which Jim was heading. That
Jim had a definite objective, he did not doubt. He knew that the
protestations of friendly interest were untrue--but he could not
prove they were untrue. The very fact that Hanvey's strategy was
unintelligible to him caused additional worry. He could face a definite
attack. This one, subtle and evasive, bewildered and rendered him
horribly vulnerable.

Madge sat at her window, staring seriously across the silhouette of
hills. In her eyes was a brooding reflective light which was at once
doubting and speculative. Instinct informed her that Jim Hanvey was her
friend. She could not help but trust him. And she had that day made
the startling discovery that there was something to Warren Kirk beside
suave gentility. She had glimpsed beneath the surface and had seen
there a hardness and a grimness which she--eighteen and in love--had
never suspected.

There was little sleep for her that night and she did not come down
the following morning until long after breakfast. She had forgotten an
engagement to ride with Kirk and learned with an inexplicable measure
of relief that he had gone alone. In the morning room she found Jim
Hanvey smoking one of his vile cigars and worrying himself over the
proper place to drop the ashes. She settled herself for a chat--and so,
eager and friendly, Whitey Kirk found her when he returned from his
ride. He remonstrated with her, and, as she had discovered a granite
something in him the previous day, so he now learned that there was a
strain of firmness in her which did not brook opposition.

"I think you're unjust and unreasonable, Warren."

"I know what I'm talking about."

"Has Mr. Hanvey ever harmed you?"

"It isn't his fault that he hasn't. He has tried."

"How do you know?"

Kirk's face flushed. That was a question which was embarrassing to
answer. He knew well enough, but--"I know--that's all."

"That isn't sufficient for me, Warren. I like Mr. Hanvey and I believe
he's our friend."

Kirk's face hardened unpleasantly. "He may be yours, Madge; but he
isn't mine."

They had walked down the rosepath together and now she left him
abruptly and returned to Hanvey. He gave no slightest indication of
interest in their conversation. He stared stolidly at nothing at all
and allowed her ample time to recover her mental equilibrium.

Kirk again tried to solve the riddle. Jim was proceeding with a smug
complacency which worried him. Mentally, he checked over the list of
his criminal exploits. He was positive that each had been excellently
covered but he wasn't sure. Now. He had been sure until Jim appeared
on the scene. But nothing could explain Jim's air of confidence save
the certainty that he had uncovered some supposedly closed trail of
Kirk's. But if Jim Hanvey was planning to discredit Kirk in the eyes of
the girl, his actions gave no hint of that fact. It was the following
morning, after a hearty tiff between Whitey and Madge, that he found
her crying in an arbor and slumped down beside her consolingly----

"Aw! c'mon, Kid--that ain't no way to carry on. Whitey didn't mean
nothin' by what he said."

She faced him squarely. There were tears in her eyes but no suggestion
of weakness in the firm line of her jaw. "It isn't what he said, Mr.
Hanvey--it's what he didn't say."

"Well then--he didn't mean nothin' by what he didn't say. Whitey's a
swell feller, Madge. An awful swell feller. Best in the world. He's got
his faults--we've all of us got them. But I'm strong for Whitey an' I'd
give anything in the world if he'd believe that."

"So would I," she said. "I trust you, Mr. Hanvey. I don't know why--but
I do. Perhaps it's because I like you so much."

Jim blushed like a schoolgirl. "Gee! them words is music to my ears.
There ain't many folks have said that to me, Miss Madge. Y'know--it
seems that when folks meet up with a fat man they think all they got to
do to prove they're good fellers is to give him a razzin'. Goshamighty,
a fat feller likes friends as much as a skinny one. More, I'll say. He
needs 'em more." He breathed heavily with the exertion of prolonged
declamation. "That's why I wisht Whitey would like me an' trust me like
you do. Matter of fact I've just been achin' to solve his problem, but
he wouldn't let me get within firin' distance--you'd think I was gonna
eat him."

"You've been aching to solve what problem, Mr. Hanvey?"

"His an' yourn."

"How?"

Jim looked away. "I don't exactly like to tell you. If Whitey was to
suspect I was hornin' in on his affairs he'd get plumb peeved. Reckon
I'd better wait. But it _is_ a terrible good solution."

"What is it?"

Her interrogation fairly crackled. Jim grinned. "Anybody listenin' to
that would know you was your father's daughter, Sis."

"What have you in mind?"

"Nothin' special--just an easy way out. Somethin' Whitey would of
thought of long ago if he'd been twenty years younger." He stared
reflectively at the sky--"Elopement!"

The color receded from her cheeks. For a moment she sat motionless,
then leaned forward earnestly. "Would he?"

"Elope? Goodness goshness! yes! Feller who wouldn't elope with you
would be a wooden Indian. 'Course I suppose he's figured that it'd get
you in dutch with your folks, but I've been studyin' them out, an' I
know they're so nuts about you they'd forgive you right away. Ain't it
so?"

"Yes.... Mr. Hanvey, I've been hoping that Warren would suggest that.
I have, really. I know it sounds unmaidenly to say it--but I've
been so worried and so uncertain. And recently Warren has acted so
peculiarly--since you came here, that is.... I wish it was over and
done with."

"That's the way to talk, Sis. And I want you to know I'm here to help
you all I can."

"You will?"

"Positively. But--" ruminatingly "--I wouldn't mention that fact to
Whitey if I was you."

She nodded agreement. "Perhaps I had better not. But I'll count on you
just the same."

It was that night that she walked through the gardens with Kirk and
broached her plan. She did it simply and naïvely--she was worried,
she said, recent developments had mitigated the perfection of their
happiness. He had become morose and she worried. It was better not to
go on this way. If he really loved her, he wouldn't wait--he'd just
carry her off....

Whitey Kirk scarce believed the evidence of his senses. He was
amazed and exultant. Ever since the moment of Jim's arrival on the
scene he had longed to suggest an elopement, but he was afraid. Jim
would find out some way, and then there'd be thunder to pay. He had
feared it would be a tactical blunder, might arouse her suspicions of
over-anxiety on his part.

His agreement was instant and enthusiastic--sufficiently enthusiastic
even for her girlish, romance-loving heart. Within an hour their plans
were laid: they were to announce after dinner the following night
that they were going for a ride. At about eight o'clock they'd leave
the grounds in her own high-powered sport roadster into which their
suitcases would previously have been put. Then across country to the
next town--and marriage. Whitey was whistling gleefully when they
returned to the spacious veranda, but Madge was victim to a strange
admixture of emotions. On the one hand was the thrill of active
romance--on the other a feeling that she was doing wrong, that she
wasn't playing fair with her parents; that, perhaps, after all was said
and done, Whitey wasn't exactly the man for her.

Some of her doubts she expressed to Jim the following morning. He
laughed away her fears. He had advised it, he said, because it was the
simplest way out of a serious difficulty. A problem, he explained, was
only a problem until it attained solution. It became then, a status.
Those were not Jim's words, but that was the sense of them. She was
only half-convinced and told him so.

"But I trust you, Jim Hanvey. I'm taking your advice. I'll do what you
say."

"You really love Whitey?"

"Y-yes."

"Then elope with him to-night."

All through the long afternoon she was distraught. Her suitcase was
packed and ready. Immediately following a peculiarly strained dinner
Whitey Kirk disappeared. He returned in a few minutes having, in the
interim, placed his suitcase in the girl's car. The world was a very
bright and rosy place for Whitey just then. He glanced contemptuously
toward the slothful, hulking figure of the detective. Not the least
item of the prospective triumph would be Jim's discomfiture.

For her part, Madge was uncertain and unhappy. Only her immaturity and
her fear of that youthful bugbear known as "backing down" prevented
an eleventh-hour retreat. But, starry-eyed and firm-jawed, she set
herself to go through with it. She had said she'd do it and she
would--come what might. But she experienced none of the happiness which
she had fancied would be hers upon her nuptial night. There was only
a vague, formless terror ... time and again she turned to Jim Hanvey
for comfort. Jim knew--she could talk to him. He tried cumbersomely
to reassure her, and succeeded partially. That evening he was to her
both mother and father ... they were very close to one another; the
big, ungainly detective and the bewildered, emotion-driven child of a
millionaire father.

At seven-thirty o'clock Whitey Kirk called Madge aside.

"Your suitcase in the car, dear?"

"Yes," she answered softly.

"You put it there yourself?"

"Yes...." Then she hesitated and bit her lip. Madge had never been
taught to lie. "Well, not exactly myself."

"What do you mean: Not exactly?"

"Nothing."

"What do you mean, Madge?"

"Well, somebody put it there for me."

"Who?"

"I don't see what difference that makes, Warren."

He quizzed her with an intensity which he himself did not understand.
"Who was it?"

Her head was flung back defiantly.

"Mr. Hanvey!"

His jaw dropped slowly. Then his fingers tightened on her arm. "Jim
Hanvey?"

"Yes."

"Then--" He was striving to adjust himself to this queer
development--"Then Jim Hanvey knows about this elopement?"

"Yes."

"You told him?"

"No. That is--not exactly."

"Good God! Madge, can't you realize what you've done? You've spoiled
the whole thing. If Jim Hanvey knows of this we may as well call it
off. We'll never get away with it. I told you from the first that he
was here to prevent our marriage. And now that you've told him--"

Her voice was level and firm in defense of the detective.

"And I've told you _you_ were wrong, Warren. Jim is my friend and
yours. He won't stop our elopement."

"What makes you think that?" His voice contained a sneer.

"Because," she announced calmly, "the idea of this elopement originated
with Jim Hanvey!"

His grip on her arm relaxed. He gazed at her in incredulous
astoundment. His brain seemed momentarily atrophied. Of all possible
disclosures this was the most disturbing. It had been sufficiently
alarming to learn that Jim was aware of the proposed elopement but to
be informed that the idea had originated with the portly detective was
a stunning blow.

He questioned the girl dazedly, choosing his words with care, holding
himself in leash that he might betray none of the violent emotion which
seethed within him. He might have suspected ... might have known that
Jim was not entirely inactive. And all the time, while the girl was
explaining, his own brain groped for an answer to the puzzle. What was
Jim planning? What _could_ he be planning? As from a great distance he
heard her words--

"And so you see I was right and Jim is your friend."

An uncontrollable fury shook him. The words were out of their own
volition--"He's a damned sneak! Butting in on my affairs!"

She recoiled. The viciousness of the man's attitude, his venomous
speech.... He saw his error quickly and for the next ten minutes
devoted himself and his expert talents to the task of making amends.
She was only half-convinced.... "We'll go through with it," he said
grimly. "Jim will double-cross you--you'll see. But we'll go through."

She went to her room. The farewell to her dainty little sanctuary was
not easy. She dabbed at her eyes with a tiny lace handkerchief and
prayed for the moral courage to renege at this eleventh hour. But that
courage did not come--she was too young and her philosophy was builded
about a tenet of gameness. She had said she'd elope with Warren Kirk
and elope she would despite the instinct which cried to her in warning.

She pulled herself together with an effort, set her lips in a
straight, determined line, and--with shoulders thrown back and head
held high--descended the stairway. Her eyes roved questioningly about
and she felt more than a hint of regret at failing to discern the
hulking figure of Jim Hanvey. Nor did she see Kirk. She inquired his
whereabouts of her father.

"I'm sure I don't know," answered Weston. "I saw Kirk strolling about
with Jim Hanvey but I don't know where they went. Weren't you going
riding with Warren?"

She nodded in dumb misery. As they reached the veranda Kirk appeared
from the dusk. He seemed nervous and, in the light which streamed
through the doorway, his face possessed a marked pallor. He addressed
the girl: "All ready, Dear?"

"Yes." She turned to her father. "Where is Johnson? I want him to get
the roadster."

Weston answered. "Johnson has gone to town in the big car, Dear. I'll
get the other out for you."

"No." Her manner denoted anxiety. "I'll back it out myself. You talk to
Warren."

There was no eagerness in her manner as she progressed slowly toward
the garage in the rear of the big house. A premonition of disaster was
with her, the irrevocability of the thing was depressing. Game as she
was, there was considerable trepidation at the thought that she was
thus wilfully abandoning the placidity of her existence for a future
unknown and with a man whom she had just come to realize she scarcely
knew.

She climbed thoughtfully into the roadster, assured herself that her
suitcase and Whitey's were there, and then started the motor. Its
rhythmic hum brought no elation this night. Just before slipping into
gear, she reached to the dashboard and switched on her head-lights.
As by magic the interior of the garage was illumined by the brilliant
glare. And then, as the significance of the sight disclosed by the
sudden illumination penetrated her consciousness, she capitulated to
her overwrought nerves. She screamed.

"Dad! O-oh! Dad!"

She sat motionless, gripped by a horrid fear, until her father stood
beside the car, and as she alighted uncertainly her eyes discerned the
figure of Warren Kirk farther back in the shadows. He hovered there
uncertainly. Her father held her arm anxiously and then, as he saw her
distended eyes, he followed their direction and a startled exclamation
escaped from between his lips. For, in the very corner of the garage
was a bundle of flashy, vivid clothes--a bundle bound securely by ropes
and rendered mute by a gag.

"He's dead!" The girl's eyes flashed accusingly upon Kirk, and then
back to the pitiful figure of Jim Hanvey in the corner. Jim was slumped
grotesquely, his chin hung forward on the massive breast, a thin
trickle of blood coursed down his fat cheeks and lost itself in the fat
recesses of the ample chins.

How long she stood there she didn't know. She remembered her father
leaping across the garage, whipping out a gold penknife as he did so.
And she knew vaguely that Kirk was beside her, his hand on her elbow.
She shook his hand off and he moved away as though she had struck him.
Weston administered first aid to the stricken man from a silver pocket
flask and not until the fishy eyes wavered open did the girl move, and
then it was to dart across the garage and drop to her knees by the side
of the ungainly figure. She pillowed his head on her breast and soft,
crooning mother-sounds came from between her lips. She wiped away the
thin stream of blood with the hem of her skirt. Jim rousing himself
with an effort, blinked dazedly into the glare of the auto lamps and
shook his head. His voice came lugubriously--

"Gosh! I sure feel like Friday the thirteenth."

As Jim, with the aid of Theodore Weston, struggled to his feet, Whitey
Kirk moved slowly into the circle of light. His finely chiselled face
exhibited great concern. He voiced a question--"What happened, Jim?"

It was Madge Weston who answered. She, too, had risen, and a new
maturity seemed to have enveloped her. With a quietly dramatic gesture
she removed from the fourth finger of her left hand the ring which Kirk
had given her. She extended it to him.

"You know what happened to him, Warren."

"I don't...." His denial was fervent. "I'll swear to you, Madge--"

"Take this, Warren. I'd rather not discuss the matter."

His eyes held hers. And the man saw there a light of finality which was
beyond question or argument. With that revealing glance he knew that he
had lost. Madge turned to her father and gave a calm, quiet, womanly
explanation--

"I was about to elope with Warren. He was afraid that Mr. Hanvey might
try to stop us. And so he committed this--this cowardly act--"

"I didn't!" It was Kirk defending himself passionately. "I give you my
word. Jim, you know I didn't do this. Tell them--"

"It doesn't matter what Mr. Hanvey says," retorted the girl sadly. "He
has always been your friend and he's your friend now. He'd probably say
you didn't do it, wouldn't you, Mr. Hanvey?"

"Yeh." Jim's big head nodded slowly. "I prob'ly would. I ain't aimin'
to git Whitey into no trouble."

"You see, Warren, he's standing by you to the end. For it is the end,
Warren. The very end. I've learned a good deal in the last few days.
Somehow, I marvel that I didn't know before."

"But I didn't do it, Madge. Tell her that I didn't do it, Jim."

Jim met his eyes levelly. "I ain't accused you of nothin', have I,
Whitey?"

Kirk stood rigid, staring from one to the other. From father and
daughter he received stares of unveiled hostility. From Jim Hanvey only
a mild, blinking reproof. Kirk's big figure shook with fury and he
smashed one fist into the palm of the other hand.

"It's all a damned lie!" he shouted. "I had nothing to do with this and
Jim Hanvey knows it."

"Well," came the quiet retort from the detective, "I ain't said you
did, have I?"

It was Madge Weston who interposed. "It doesn't matter what either of
you might say," she remarked coldly. "And now, Dad, I think we'd better
help Mr. Hanvey into the house."

They supported the big figure between them. Whitey Kirk stood aside
as they passed him. Later, after Weston and Madge had bandaged Jim's
slight scalp wound, Kirk dispatched a note to Madge protesting his
innocence and begging for an audience. She returned a curt refusal and
the following morning, without again having seen the girl, Whitey Kirk
abruptly departed the Weston home.

That afternoon Jim Hanvey and Theodore Weston faced each other across
the polished surface of the walnut desk in the library. Jim was puffing
peacefully upon one of his favorite black cigars and his host was
struggling manfully with its mate. But however horrible the cigar might
have been, it was not sufficiently malevolent to negative entirely the
unalloyed exaltation which Weston was experiencing.

"You accomplished the impossible, Jim. I'll never forget it. I didn't
believe it would work----"

"I wasn't so dog-goned sure of it myself," answered the big detective
slowly. Then he grinned ruefully as he tenderly rubbed the bruise
on his head. "I'll hand you one thing, Mr. Weston. Your bindin' an'
gaggin' wasn't such a fine job--but believe me that sure was one awful
wallop you hit me. I don't wonder Miss Madge was so sure that Whitey
done it. She never would believe her Dad was that cruel."

Weston was deeply apologetic. "You insisted that I hit you hard."

"Sure I did," chuckled Jim. "I'm just remarkin' that you certainly took
me at my word."




                               PINK BAIT


There was nothing about Mr. Thomas Matlock Braden to mark him as being
other than a perfect gentleman. From the moment of his unostentatious
arrival he blended perfectly into the tinsel background of the
fashionable Indiana resort hotel and while he regretted that the other
guests were not aware that he possessed eleven new tailored suits he
found contentment in the fact that they were equally ignorant of his
eleven aliases.

Tommy Braden was old enough to appreciate the benefits which accrue to
one who treads the path of rectitude, and, by the same token, he had
attained to a philosophy which was based upon the theory that there was
no transgression provided one is undiscovered. He was slightly more
than forty-five years of age, tall and lean and quietly purposeful. His
black hair was graying at the temples: he presented a picture which
impelled passers-by to turn and murmur: "What a distinguished looking
gentleman."

In cultivating this external aspect of severe probity, Tommy assumed
a virtue which he had not. Morally, Tommy was a total loss. He was
courteous and suave and cosmopolitan. And unscrupulous. He feared
nothing save detection and ordered his existence upon the hypothesis
that the legally constituted authorities are, on the whole, a stupid
lot who have mastered the fundamentals of criminology and care nothing
and know less about the finer points of the science.

He had long since graduated from the ranks of ordinary crooks. He now
handled only tasks which required extraordinary finesse, infinite
patience and an all-embracing knowledge of human nature. He selected
his clients with as great care as he chose his victims and the former,
at least, had small cause to protest his treatment. Certainly Mr.
Michael Donley fancied himself extremely fortunate in having secured
the cooperation of so eminent a personage in the criminal world.

The deal between Messrs. Donley and Braden had been consummated in a
few moments.

"You know them Vanduyn poils, Tommy?"

"Yes."

"I got 'em."

"I know it."

"How'dja get wise?"

Mr. Braden's thin, ascetic lips expanded into a tolerant smile. "You
bungled that job horribly, Mickey. Every dick in the country knows who
pulled that job. They'll nab you the first time you turn around."

Mr. Donley made a rueful grimace. "You said it, bo. There aint a fence
will touch 'em. That's why I come to you."

"Yes?"

"How about sellin' 'em for me?"

"I might consider it."

"I'll split fifty-fifty."

Tommy Braden laughed lightly. "You amuse me, Mickey; truly you do."

"An even split----"

"I won't do business with you in that way, Mickey. You're a common
crook and I don't care to enter into a co-partnership with you.
However, I'll buy the pearls from you for five thousand dollars cash."

"Aw! Tommy."

"Very well." Mr. Braden waved insouciantly. "Sell them elsewhere. I'm
rather busy these days."

Mr. Donley knew that he was caught and he knew that Tommy Braden knew
it. It was impossible for Mickey to dispose of the gems; in fact,
there was a strong likelihood that even Tommy Braden would find it an
impossible task. Certainly there was little doubt that it would tax his
capacities to the utmost.

Mickey studied closely the inscrutable countenance of his companion.
In it he read a subtle enjoyment of the situation. Mickey was
annoyed--chiefly because he was helpless.

"Awright Tommy. Where's the five grand?"

"Where are the pearls, Mickey?"

"They're cache'd. Didn't dare bring 'em here. The bulls've got me
shadowed. It's a shame the way they hound a poor crook."

"It is, Mickey; it certainly is. But it proves that you're wise to sell
them to me. They don't care anything for your carcass; they can pick
you up any minute they choose. What they're after is the jewels. Pretty
nice reward they're offering, isn't it?"

Mr. Donley shook his bullet head sorrowfully. "Ten thousand berries.
Gosh.... But the point is--where'll we meet?"

Mr. Braden did some careful thinking. "Let's say to-morrow afternoon
at two o'clock at the corner of Boulevard and Thirty-second street,
Bayonne. And be sure they don't trail you."

Mickey laughed shortly. "The dick that follies me there is going to
have went all over Joisey."

They met as per schedule. Tommy Braden at the wheel of a borrowed
sedan. Together they rolled slowly down the Hudson County Boulevard
toward Bergen Point. Mr. Donley produced a chamois sack and from it
poured forth a stream of pink glory. "Gawd! ain't they beauts?"

Tommy's eyes glittered with the appreciation of a connoisseur. "Very
fine, Mickey. A rope of matched pearls ... hmm! I should say they're
worth a hundred thousand dollars."

"Ev'ry dime of that. Say, listen--how 'bout raising the ante a grand or
two?"

"Don't be silly, Mickey. Here's your five thousand. Give me the pearls."

Mr. Donley left the sedan at Eighth Street and returned to New York
via the Jersey Central. The route chosen by Mr. Thomas Matlock Braden
was considerably more circuitous. He crossed the Kill von Kull to Port
Richmond and traversed Staten Island to St. George where he boarded
the New York ferry. He reached his apartment, concealed the pearls
carefully and four days later departed for Indiana.

Braden's mind was agile, and before his departure he had carefully
planned every move of the delicate game. For one thing he had obtained
several magazines which contained pictures of a certain Mr. Jared
Mallory. Mr. Braden had always been interested in Mr. Mallory. The
interest had been aroused once by the casual comment of a detective
friend that they were not dissimilar in appearance. Mr. Mallory was
a trifle older, true, but he had the same lean, sinewy figure; the
same easy grace of bearing; the same appearance of gentility and the
same touches of gray at the temples. Of course no person who knew Mr.
Mallory could ever confound the twain, but a person who had never seen
Mr. Mallory (and few had beyond his limited circle) could very readily
believe that Tommy Braden was he, provided that belief was suggested.

Tommy Braden was a great admirer of Mallory's. The latter was all
that Tommy would have liked to be. He was immeasurably wealthy, he
did not work, he existed in a little world of his own and looked with
fine and distant disdain upon the senseless turmoil of a commercial
world. If he dabbled at all in the marts of commerce it was with a
magnificent aloofness which kept his name clear of financial news. One
could imagine him as a person whose fortune was invested exclusively
in government bonds. But the greatest link between Messrs. Braden and
Mallory lay in the fact that the latter was by way of being a jewel
collector.

Tommy, too, collected jewelry, although in a rather more informal way.
A gem to Mr. Mallory was a thing of beauty and of glory; something
to be treasured and gazed upon and studied. Mr. Braden, being rather
grossly material, saw in a jewel only its intrinsic worth and its
marketable value where the method of its coming into his possession had
been a bit questionable. But he loved jewelry none the less ... the
viewpoint of the two men was basically the same although diametrically
opposite in the working-out; Braden saw jewels in terms of cash;
Mallory saw dollars in terms of gems.

Jared Mallory was known to the masses in a vague way, such as a king
is known. He was a person without a public personality. He shunned
publicity and human contact outside his own little personal circle.
He was a living definition of the word exclusive in its sociological
application ... and so it was that very few persons were aware of the
fact that Mr. Mallory had but recently sailed for France. Tommy Braden
knew it, but that was only because Tommy happened to have an interest
in Mr. Mallory. And now Tommy planned to cash in on his observation of
the millionaire jewel-collector.

Tommy's decision to visit the famous Indiana resort was the result of
careful deliberation. He knew that this was the last place in the world
that Mr. Mallory would ever visit, and it was logical to presume that
Mr. Mallory's intimates would also shun it. They were to be found on
private estates situated in Florida or along the Carolina coast ...
anywhere but at a blatant resort hotel.

Nor was Mr. Braden wrong in his conjecture. Of the thousands of guests
who thronged the hotel lobby, the golf course, the casino--there was
not one who had ever personally seen the famous Mr. Mallory although
there were several whose bank balances contained as many figures
as that of the gem collector. Which did not mean that Mr. Braden's
fellow-guests were socially doubtful but rather that Mr. Mallory's
status was such that the hotel would have considered he was paying it
an inestimable compliment by deigning to visit.

Tommy arrived at the hotel late one evening. He knew that one or two
guests commented upon his distinguished appearance as he crossed the
lobby. Such comment always pleased Tommy. It was a tribute to
something which was innate. He liked to tell himself that he was not a
snob ... he intended fully that the reputation of Mr. Mallory should
not suffer by reason of any misapprehension which might be more or less
deliberately engendered in the minds of his fellow-guests.

He registered in a cramped scrawl which bore a startling similarity to
the labored chirography of Jared Mallory. But Tommy was nothing if not
honest. The clerk whirled the register and glimpsed the signature----

                      THOMAS M. BRADEN--New York.

"I wired for a suite...." Tommy's voice was rather indifferent, his
manner bored.

"Yes sir. Certainly sir." The gong. "Front. Show Mr. Braden up to Suite
F."

The dinner hour approached. Mr. Braden bathed and dressed with
scrupulous care in an ultra-conservative dinner jacket. There was about
his rather statuesque figure an air of stateliness which harmonized
with the conventional simplicity of his garb. His dress was so
unobtrusive as to command instant attention. He descended to the lobby,
crossed to the dining room and slipped a crisp and ample bill into the
willing hand of the headwaiter by way of assuring himself the proper
respect.

He knew that more than one person commented upon him during the course
of the meal. For the most part he kept his eyes down, but when they
did chance to focus upon some person, that individual experienced the
unpleasant sensation of being looked through. More than one consulted
the clerk after dinner for information as to the identity of the
stranger who had now retired to a corner of the lobby and was puffing
lightly upon a monogrammed cigarette.

Among those who had particularly noticed Tommy was a couple from the
Middle West: a rather wizened gentleman of some fifty-five years and
his unduly ample wife. Mr. and Mrs. Edgar H. Morse had, for the past
five years, been frantically attempting to create the impression which
Mr. Braden was now registering so profoundly. Wealth had come to them
in an unexpected flood. They were not crude persons but they did lack
the background which is essential to true culture and, as earnestly as
they had struggled for financial success during years which were rather
more lean than fat, so they set about adjusting themselves to the
social demands of their miraculously acquired millions.

They were rather pathetic as they hung on the fringe of things and
sought to absorb in a few years the social ease which must be born in
one. They were not aggressive in their wealth--as a matter of fact they
scarcely understood it; had not yet fathomed its meaning. And their
tastes were those of the contest-answerers who send in to the editor
lengthy replies to the prize query: "What would you do if you suddenly
inherited a million dollars?"

Mr. and Mrs. Morse strolled over to the desk and made inquiry of the
clerk.

"Oh! him? That's Thomas M. Braden."

His manner indicated that anyone who was anyone would certainly know
Mr. Thomas M. Braden. Mr. Morse caught the nuance and uttered an
enlightening--"A-a-ah! So it is."

"He's a wonderful looking man," commented Mrs. Morse. "So
distinguished."

They managed to seat themselves near Tommy. He appraised them
scientifically. There was no mistaking their new and complete
wealth--"Woman--no taste--but nice. Swellest modiste in New York--make
me the grandest gown you got. He's a bird that ain't sure yet whether
he ought to wear plain or patent oxfords with his dinner jacket. They
look soft."

He was apparently oblivious to their proximity until Mr. Morse
apologetically borrowed a match. He did so apprehensively and was
put instantly at ease by Tommy's manner. But Mr. Braden immediately
appeared to lose interest in them. He was gazing out across the
lobby--in but not of the crowd. And just when the Morses had become
discouraged Tommy turned to them with a question--"How far is the golf
links from the hotel?"

Edgar H. Morse expanded instantly. He orated jerkily upon the nearness
of the first tee, the condition of the course, the scenic beauties of
the place--and wound up with the inevitable question of all golfers:
"What do you shoot?"

Tommy shrugged, "I'm not very good. When I break a hundred I'm
satisfied."

"Just my game. I did a 98 to-day and I'm tickled pink. Of course I
hole every putt and most of 'em don't. You booked up for a game in the
morning?"

Tommy Braden bestowed upon his companion a stare in which there was the
faintest hint of disapproval; a stare such as he fancied Jared Mallory
might confer. Morse felt a sensation of faintness.

"No-o," answered Tommy, "I'm not."

There was an awkward pause. Edgar Morse desired to invite this regal
gentleman to play with him but he dreaded a rebuff. And just when the
subject was about to expire naturally, Tommy ventured a polite "Why?"

"Why--er--a--I just sort of thought.... That is, if you weren't----"

"That we might play a round?"

"Yes. Yes." Eagerly. "If you would--that is, if you'd care to."

"Delighted. What hour shall we tee off?"

"Don't know--course crowded--have to get starting time." He rose
excitedly. "'Scuse me minute. I'm in strong with the starter--give 'im
cigars--and--er--things. See if I can't fix it...." He darted away,
leaving Tommy with Mrs. Morse. She favored him with a wistful little
smile.

"That's real nice of you," she said. "Eddie just dotes on golf."

"I'm sure I shall enjoy it."

"Oh! sure you will. As soon as you get to know Eddie real well--that
is, if you should--you'll like him tremendously. He's been awful
lonesome here...."

Edgar H. Morse returned, flushed and triumphant. "Fixed him. Ain't hard
when you know how. We're off at nine-fifteen. Say, I'm all pepped up."

Tommy took a cigarette from a platinum case. He extended the case to
his new-found friend. Edgar Morse took one and glanced at the monogram.
He wanted to note the brand of cigarette this gentleman used that he
might unostentatiously duplicate it at the earliest possible moment.

His eye focussed upon a simple monogram. Private brand ... but no: the
initials were distinctly not T. M. B. He inspected more closely, then
lighted the thing and inhaled deeply. "Fine cigarette. What make?"

"My own," answered Tommy Braden suavely.

They chatted amiably for a few moments and then Tommy rose, expressed
polite regrets and moved away. "T'morrow morning, remember," the little
man flung after him. "We'll have a great round. Er--a--that is, I hope
we will."

Tommy smiled his best Mallory smile, indicating the ultra-correct
degree of mild enthusiasm. And when he had taken hat and stick and
disappeared Mr. Edgar H. Morse did a very peculiar thing. He reached
eagerly into the ash tray and rescued therefrom two frayed cigarette
stubs. Mrs. Morse was duly horrified.

"Eddie! What in the world!"

But Edgar did not hear. He was frowning slightly and his gaze was fixed
intently upon the monogram of Tommy's privately made cigarettes.

"Listen, Ella--you heard him say they were his private cigarettes?"

"Yes. But a good many gentlemen----"

"Sure. Sure. I'm not saying they don't. But there's something peculiar
about this chap. See this monogram here--it ain't T. M. B. at all. The
initials are J. M."

From the deepest shadows of the spacious veranda, Tommy Braden was a
witness to the little scene. A slow smile of satisfaction creased his
thin, patrician lips. "So much for him," he murmured. "That Mallory
monogram was a great idea. Our trade mark--once seen, never forgotten."

The game of golf was enjoyed by both men. They played a nip and tuck
contest which atoned in competitive value what it undoubtedly lacked in
skill. It was not until the seventeenth green when an impossibly long
putt caromed off a match stick and clicked into the cup that victory
finally perched upon the Morse banner. The little man was jumpy with
excitement.

"Great game--wonderful. Ain't often I meet a guy I like to play as much
as I do you. Besides, most of the chaps I know can beat me--beat the
tar out of me. I'm an awful dub. Say--we got to do this again--a--that
is, I hope we got to."

"We shall," smiled Tommy. "I've enjoyed the morning immensely."

From the eighteenth green they strolled to the clubhouse where they
indulged in long, tall lemonades which appeared to inspire Mr. Morse
with no particular enthusiasm. "Got something in my room. C'mon and
sample it. That is--a--if you care to."

Mr. Braden was delighted--far more than he cared to admit. One glance
at the suite occupied by the Morses and he was well satisfied that
he had picked his victim competently. He knew just about what this
suite was costing and his keen eye missed no detail of the many which
shrieked new and amazing wealth.

Mrs. Morse inquired interestedly as to the details of the match--a
frequently interrupted and garbled account which had to do with lucky
breaks, horrible kicks, phenomenal putts.... "We're gonna play again in
the morning," finished Edgar. "That is--er--Mr. Braden says he wants
to. 'Course I'm not blaming him for kicking. That last putt of mine
didn't have any right going down. I always did believe that putting was
too all-fired important in this game...."

The fraternity of golf engendered a friendliness which would have been
long in developing else. It was decided that they should dine together
that night, and about five o'clock in the afternoon Tommy visited the
florist shop in the hotel where he ordered a corsage bouquet sent up
to Mrs. Morse. "Right here," he reflected, "is where the old dame gets
hooked right. And at the same time I exterminate another bird."

"Shly write the card?" inquired the obtrusively blonde young lady at
the counter.

"No-o." Tommy produced a card which he flipped across the counter. She
glanced at it indifferently.

"Cash?" she inquired, "or shly charge it to y'r room, Mr. Mallory?"

He started visibly. "What's that?"

"Shly charge it to your room or juh wanna pay cash?"

"I mean--what was it you called me?"

She glanced at the card. "Mallory. That's what the card here says,
an'----"

He snatched it brusquely from her hand. "Wrong card," he snapped
making an effort to appear as though he were making an effort to appear
unembarrassed. "Here's my card. You may charge it to Suite F."

He whirled and moved away, his manner denoting extreme irritation. The
rather fullblown young lady stared after him. "Now ain't he the pussy's
ankle?" she murmured reflectively. "Gets sore because he slips me the
wrong card. That ain't nothin' to get peeved about." An assistant
manager drifted toward her counter. "Say, Gus--who's the flossy bird
with the gray thatch which just rambled away from here?"

The young gentleman shrugged. "I got worries of my own, Susie. What's
the matter--he been trying to date you up?"

"No. But he ordered a corsage sent up to some female an' he slipped
me the wrong card. I looks on the card an' reads the name an' I says
'Shly charge it to your room, Mr. Mallory?' an' with that he like to
of bit my head off. He just about gives me the bum's rush gettin' that
pasteboard which he tears up right away. Then he slips me this one--Mr.
Thomas Matlock Braden--I don't see nothing to get excited about just
because he slips me the wrong pasteboard, d'you? What difference does
it make to me if his name's Thomas Braden or Jared Mallory or what
it is. I reckon neither of them handles is gonna start no war--Say!
Gus--for the love of Mike, what's eatin' you? If you feel like that
you'd ought to see a Doc."

The ninth assistant manager put out a delicately restraining hand.
"Jared Mallory?" he said half to himself.

Susie was annoyed. "Now listen at me, Gus--"

"I thought Braden wasn't his name. Jared Mallory! Holy Suffering
Catfish! Say, you ain't sure about that, are you, Susie?"

"No. Of course I ain't. I only know it, that's all. If you think my
lamps have went bad you can assort them card which he flang on the
floor."

It took the young man but a few seconds to recover the torn bits
of pasteboard and arrange them in proper order. "Well I'll be
darned--Jared Mallory is right. Say, lemme tell the Chief."

Susie restrained him briefly. "Who is this bird Mallory--that you
should get all het up over him? Who did he ever kill?"

"Jared Mallory," explained the excited young man, "is one of the
richest nuts in the United States: that's all. He's got a bankroll so
big you'd have to have four eyes to see it all."

"Then why the alias?" she queried practically.

"This joint ain't Mallory's size. He's the kind of guy who thinks he's
slumming when he visits a hotel like this. Is that clear now?"

"Sure--sure it is, Gus. Clear as mud."

It required just five minutes of the young man's time to transmit his
enthusiasm to the manager. "Of course," counselled that dignitary, "you
shall do nothing to embarrass Mr. Mallory. If he desires to visit us
incognito--"

And within ten minutes the manager had informed two of his particular
friends that Jared Mallory, the millionaire, was registered at the
hotel under the name of Thomas Matlock Braden. By dinnertime that night
a dozen persons knew it and before morning Tommy was a marked man--at
which Tommy merely smiled a thoroughly satisfied smile. "When Mr.
Barnum spoke his famous words," he soliloquized, "he must have been
timing things with a slow watch."

It was fully forty-eight hours before the rumor of Braden's identity
reached the ears of Mrs. Edgar H. Morse. At receipt of the tidings
she almost collapsed. "That's right--I knew all the time he was
somebody tremendous." And she proceeded to recount the incident of the
monogrammed cigarettes.

But it was in the privacy of the Morse suite that the knowledge
received a most thorough threshing out. "Golly!" breathed Edgar. "Think
of me bumming around with Jared Mallory. Honeybunch! we're sure sliding
up the social ladder now, we are. I thought there was something funny
about those cigarettes. And he's a gentleman right--he is; so much of a
one he don't have to be watching his step all the time. Funny he should
like me--er--a--that is, if he really does."

Thus far Mallory was merely a name to Edgar Morse and Edgar Morse was
only a name to Tommy Braden. Each set in motion inquiries as to the
other. Tommy's task proved the easier.

Within five days he was in possession of full information regarding
the financial and social standing of his prospective victim. He knew
that Mr. Morse had been a ten-thousand-a-year man with an aptitude for
saving until a certain wild venture in war babies had catapulted him
into the multi-millionaire class; so suddenly, in fact, that neither
the excitable little man nor his wife had yet adjusted themselves to
their new position in life. Tommy rather liked them; they weren't
the offensive type of _nouveau riche_--there was nothing aggressive
or vulgar about either. And Tommy was convinced that he would not be
doing them an injury by selling to them the Vanduyn pearls. According
to Tommy's way of figuring the detectives would never suspect that
handsome jewels in the possession of Edgar H. Morse had been come by
illicitly, so that, under the deal he contemplated no one would be
the loser. "No one except Vanduyn," he mused, "and that baby is stung
anyway."

Information regarding Jared Mallory came less readily to Mr. Morse.
Mr. Mallory was not among those present in the Dunn and Bradstreet
reports; but now that the great hotel was agog with knowledge of
Tommy's supposedly true identity, scraps of information were working
into a comprehensive--and rather flattering--whole. As a matter of
fact the actual presence of Jared Mallory would not have excited the
curiosity caused by Tommy's incognito. There was something irresistibly
intriguing about a man who sought to conceal his eminence--something
of greater allure than the eminence itself. Mr. Mallory--so general
comment had it--possessed the wealth of Crœsus, the family tree of a
Plantagenet and he was inclined to be more or less of what the public
expressively if inelegantly terms a nut.

Within a week all doubt which may have existed as to his being Jared
Mallory had been removed. The manager had personally made occasion
to visit Tommy's room when Tommy was absent. He found a half hundred
cigarettes monogrammed J. M., one or two handkerchiefs with the same
embroidered initials and an ancient letter addressed to Jared Mallory's
New York address.

But even at that Tommy was not entirely satisfied. He closeted himself
one day with the manager and explained to him that a telegram might
possibly come to the hotel addressed to Mr. Mallory; in which event
it was to be delivered to him. No such telegram ever arrived, but
whatever doubt may have remained to the manager was promptly and
effectively set at rest. Nor did that personage maintain the secrecy
which had been demanded of him. True, he passed the information only
to certain intimate friends who, in turn, conveyed it to their own
intimates--until the positive knowledge was the property of the entire
guest personnel.

There was, of course, an avalanche of attention showered upon
the supposed Jared Mallory to all of which he was magnificently
indifferent. He was courteous and frostily impersonal. He accepted
one or two invitations with an air of bespeaking condescension, and
through it all he vouchsafed his intimacy only to the Morses.

But even with them he maintained a reserve. Edgar Morse, prideful of
his recent success, told Tommy of it, thereby bringing no agony of
soul to Mr. Braden; but of himself Tommy never spoke. He did mention
casually an acquaintanceship extending from Cape Town to Bombay and
from New York to Sydney; he spoke feelingly and with passionate
intensity whenever the subject of jewels was mentioned and he openly
admired an unusually handsome emerald which Mrs. Morse possessed.
But not once was he other than Thomas Matlock Braden--even on the
memorable evening when Mrs. Morse, carried away by her interest in the
conversation, addressed him as Mr. Mallory.

Tommy's forehead corrugated in a frown of annoyance. "What's that?" he
inquired with frigid politeness.

She flushed scarlet. "Why--er--you see, folks around the hotel say you
are Jared Mallory of New York."

There was no doubting his anger. His voice came in crisp and incisive
negation: "I am afraid I am not responsible for gossip. I am not Jared
Mallory."

Ella Morse was flustered and her husband came eagerly to her rescue.
"Now don't you go blaming Ella, Mr. Braden. She's been hearing so much
about you being Mr. Mallory and all the folks in the hotel wanting to
know if you really were, that she--I--that is, we--we've sort of called
you Mr. Mallory to ourselves and the name kind of slipped out. It
ain't any business of ours who you are--and we didn't go to cause you
any embarrassment...." He paused and spluttered. Tommy stared coldly.

"I understand, Mr. Morse. And I am sure that Mr. Mallory would not be
at all flattered."

"No--of course he wouldn't. He'd prob'ly be awful sore. That
is--er--a--not because folks thought you were him--of course you're as
good as he is any day in the week, including Sundays--but on account of
his feeling--well you know what I mean."

"Yes. I'm sure I do. But let's don't discuss it further. I prefer to
remain Thomas M. Braden."

"'Sall right with me, Mr. Braden. You can be Willie Jones if you want
to and it don't make any difference to us, does it, Ella?"

But after Tommy had parted from them that evening after a session at
the casino, Edgar swung on his wife. "Goshamighty, Ella--wasn't he sore
when he found out folks knew who he was?"

She nodded. "Can you blame him, Eddie? Here he's taken all this trouble
to make folks believe he ain't Jared Mallory ... I reckon he's terribly
put out. But there isn't a doubt in the world that he's him. If he
wasn't Mr. Mallory he wouldn't get peeved about folks thinking he was."

The friendship between Tommy Braden and the Morses flourished after
that little verbal clash. If unpleasant memory of it rankled in Tommy's
mind, he gave no indication and his suavity and friendliness put them
completely in his power. They drove together--in Morse's car--and
Edgar and Tommy played golf daily. He shunned the society of the other
guests, rigidly maintaining his attitude of impregnable exclusiveness.
And it was after a fortnight of this that the subject of jewelry
again came up: neither Edgar nor his wife suspecting that Tommy had
introduced the subject.

He appeared to become inspired. He thrilled them with romances of
famous gems. The history of renowned jewels he had at his finger-tips.
They were seated in the parlor of his suite, the air filled with the
fragrance of excellent cigars.... "But after all," declaimed Mr.
Braden, "there is only one jewel which is worthy the name."

"And that is?"

"The pearl."

They were in enthusiastic agreement. Tommy launched into an expansive
account of the pearl fisheries which he claimed to have seen, he
explained to them the mysteries of great pearls and enthralled them
with his enthusiasm. And then----

"I'm passionately fond of them," he confessed boyishly. "And I have
something here--if you'd like to see it."

A significant glance flashed between the others. The jewel-collector
had been humanized by his hobby.... He opened one of his trunks and a
few seconds later returned with a battered leather case of sizeable
dimensions. They gathered near him at the table, and then, very slowly
and worshipfully, he flung back the lid.

The Vanduyn pearls smiled up at them in pink perfection. Mrs. Morse
gasped with delight.

"Oh-oh! How glorious!"

Tommy caught up the rope of gems and ran them caressingly through his
fingers. "They are among the most perfect pearls in the world--each one
a match for every other one. Each has its history, its romance. It has
taken me years to collect them."

They were mesmerized by the magnificence of the jewels. And, while
they stared under the spell, Tommy talked softly and well about them.
He described the long stretches of sandy beach, the atolls and palm
stretches of the somnolent South Seas--the slumbering coral reefs, the
mahogany-skinned Kanakas. His voice trembled as he described the pearl
fishing operations; the shark menace; the dangers faced by the pearl
producers. He was a natural actor and he held the little manufacturer
and his wife in the hollow of his hand. And then, just when it seemed
as though they could no longer endure the glory of the thing he showed
them--he snapped the case shut and turned away.

In a second he had dropped back into his customary manner: scrupulously
polite, a trifle distant, unutterably exclusive. But the Morses were
no longer with him in spirit. They were dazed. It was Edgar Morse who
sounded the words which brought a lilt of triumph to the heart of Tommy
Braden.

"I'm rather sorry you showed us those, Mr. Braden."

"Sorry?"

"Yes. I want them."

Tommy smiled good-humouredly. "Then I, too, am sorry. I'm afraid there
are no other pearls precisely like these."

Tommy Braden knew he had builded well. He deliberately shunted the
conversation from the subject of jewelry, knowing that the little man
and his sweet-faced wife would discuss the pearls once they were alone
again. Nor was he wrong. They were captivated by the sheer beauty of
the things; and their suddenly aroused passion had nothing whatever to
do with the intrinsic worth of that which they had come to covet.

"If he would only sell them," she said wistfully. "They would cost a
fortune, but----"

"It isn't the money," he answered. "Mr. Mallory doesn't care for money
and he does care for his pearls: that's all. I'm sure he'd never sell
them--er--that is, I don't think he would."

"We could ask him."

"I'm afraid we couldn't. We might hint around ... that is, kind of test
him out."

But, somehow, they found that assignment unreasonably difficult. Their
mention of the pearls the night following excited no response from
him, but on the night after that he consented to again display the
magnificent rope. He told them off, jewel by jewel ... but his manner
forbade the mention of a sale. Talk of dollars and cents in connection
with their flawless beauty would have been a sacrilege.

Morse did essay one valiant attempt--"We'd be awfully appreciative,
Mr. Braden, if you could help us get some pearls exactly like
those--er--a--that is, if there are any."

The other man shrugged. "I'm afraid there are not," he retorted briefly.

Tommy was playing an ultra-careful game. He was making progress slowly
but surely; casting himself in the rôle of quarry. And he might have
continued in just that way had not something occurred on the ensuing
day which caused him considerable apprehension.

At first he did not see the Gargantuan figure which hulked at the desk
and wrestled with the register. It was not until the stranger turned
and surveyed the lobby through glassy, fishlike eyes that a premonition
of danger smote him. His face hardened and he whistled sharply through
his teeth.

The person at the desk was not one to inspire any emotion other
than the most intense amusement. He was a man of overflowing girth
and lumbering manner. His clothes were grotesquely misfit; the coat
flapped loosely about the protuberant torso and the material of the
suit glistened with a sheen begotten of arduous wear. Beneath the
pants-cuffs shone a brief expanse of cheap, lavender sox topping
aggressive russet shoes, the toes of which rose to points. From the top
of the vest there was exhibited a small area of lavender silk shirt, a
purple polka-dotted necktie and a collar of insignificant height but
amazing circumference.

But it was the face which inevitably engaged the attention--engaged
it and held it even more than the absurdly powerful gold chain which
spanned the vest and held dangling from it a golden toothpick with
which the big man toyed absently as he gazed about the lobby. The face
was a fitting final touch to the ensemble. It was an enormous face; a
pudgy, expressionless face; a face flanked by loose, pendulous jowls
ruddily complexioned; a face like a great pudding set with two glass
marbles.

A casual observer might have believed that those eyes were sightless
as they stared stonily across the lobby. Once or twice the man
blinked--the process consuming an interminably long time. He yawned
with his eyes, but it did not seem to matter whether they were open or
closed. And at length he heeded the irritable summons of an excessively
peeved bellhop and turned to follow that person into an elevator.

Tommy Braden stood flatfooted staring as though at an apparition. But
once the cage door closed, Braden crossed the lobby swiftly and glanced
at the register.

                         JIM HANVEY--New York.

He turned away. He strolled out upon the spacious veranda where he
lighted a cigar and puffed reflectively. Eddie Morse and his wife,
Ella, would not have known their friend at that moment. Tommy's face
was hard and bitter and there was fear delineated in it. He put his
thoughts into unspoken words--

"What the hell is Jim Hanvey doing here? Why should a detective like
him come to a joint like this?"

Tommy Braden, by dint of hard and untiring work, had risen gradually
to the very top of his profession. The road had been neither easy nor
undangerous. He had faced disappointment and reversal with a bravely
smiling face--and now he had come to the point where he felt entitled
to reap the fruits of his endeavor. Tommy had been the despair of
detectives. He operated with an easy suavity and a level-headed
cunning which sent them running up blind alleys in the futile search
for evidence to convict, so that thus far Tommy had avoided the
inconveniences of jail--save in the case of a single slip in the early
days of his career.

That single jail sentence rankled in Tommy's breast, and it had
inspired in him a wholesome fear of state boarding houses. In jail
one was deprived of one's individuality and individuality was Tommy's
greatest stock in trade. He intensely disliked swapping his name
for a number and his exquisitely tailored clothes for a uniform. It
seemed a great pity that the state had no more judgment than to fail
to differentiate between crude, lumbering crooks and gentlemen of the
profession who operated with delicacy and finesse. But, after all,
Tommy Braden feared only one man in the detective world, which was why
he was so visibly disturbed at finding himself a fellow-guest of that
one man.

The following morning he played golf with Edgar Morse. He unbent more
than ever before and dazzled the little business man so thoroughly that
Morse's mind was not on the game and he lowered his course record seven
strokes. "By Golly!" reflected Mr. Morse, "there ain't a doubt that
this Braden or Mallory, or whoever he is, really likes me."

Tommy was annoyed. He had been enjoying the cat-and-mouse contest and
Jim's advent forced him to greater speed than he had planned. They
walked in from the eighteenth green together, consumed large drinks of
iced sarsaparilla which Mr. Morse insisted was excellent for the blood,
and then Tommy made his way to the hotel while Mr. Morse selected his
favorite putter and a half dozen balls for a session of utterly useless
practice on the clock course.

Tommy saw the hulking figure of the mammoth detective too late to avoid
a meeting. He was perturbed but at the same time thankful that his
introduction to Jim at this particular time should come while he was
unaccompanied. And realizing the inevitability of a talk with Jim, it
was he who spoke first.

"Well, well, well--if it isn't my fat friend."

Jim looked up. Heavy eyelids closed over glassy orbs with maddening
slowness, held shut for a moment, then uncurtained with even more
annoying deliberateness. There was no doubting the sincerity of the
surprise which was reflected upon the pudgy countenance.

"Well I'm a sonovagun! Tommy Braden!" Their hands met in a clasp of
sincere cordiality. "It is Braden now, ain't it, Tommy?"

Tommy smiled with rare good-humor. "Surest thing you know, Jim. Thomas
Matlock Braden."

"The whole works, huh? What's it feel like to be masqueradin' under
your right name?"

"Pretty good, Jim; pretty good. I've retired on my income."

"Quit the game?"

"Entirely."

"That's fine, Tommy--fine. I'm tickled pink to know it. I always like
to see a crook with sense enough to know when he's got plenty. There
ain't nothin' like honesty, my boy, when you've made all the money you
need."

"That's what I figured, Jim. There wasn't any use for me to continue
running risks.... Of course I'm not what you'd call a rich man, but
then I'm pretty well fixed. And not being tied up with a frail, it
don't cost me much.... You know how it is."

"Sure, Tommy--I know." Jim blinked with friendly approval upon the
other. "Dog-gone if you don't look like a million dollars ready money,
Son. Silk shirt, trick pants an' everything. Say, what is there to this
golf thing that makes sensible men dress funny thataway?"

"Ever played?"

"Naw! Imagine an elephant like me chasin' a dinky little ball over the
meadows."

"Better men than you have fallen for it."

"Sure; I know that. But it's my figger, Son. The links wouldn't stand
for it."

Jim turned and walked with Braden toward the hotel. Tommy was
ill-at-ease despite the apparent ease of his manner. Jim's face bore
an expression of bovine contentment; he looked like a child--or a
simpleton. Tommy knew that he was not a good man to have around, and
yet he was afraid to protest too fervently that he was now treading the
path of rectitude. Yet his curiosity shrieked for appeasement.

"Funny to see you here, Jim."

"Me? I reckon it is. I've been some awful funny places, Tommy."

"Vacation?"

"Uh-huh. An' I just naturally got sick of lowbrow joints. Besides,
a lot of the big boys in your line of work drift by here during the
season, and so I thought I'd try this seven-forks-dinner stuff for a
while. Guy never gets too old to learn, you know. Of course I ain't
like you--you're a gent an' you fit. I'll bet you wear a movie screen
shirt for dinner, eh?"

"Yes. Everybody does here."

"But one. Say: 'jever see me in evenin' duds? No? Honest, I look like
next week's wash hangin' out."

"Doesn't exactly fit your style of beauty?"

"No. I reckon when the good Lord gimme a knack of rememberin' faces an'
understandin' human nature, He figgered His part was done. If faces was
fortunes I'd be bankrupt."

They attained the ornate lobby where, at the desk, Tommy secured the
key to his suite. "Come up, Jim?"

"Uh-uh. Got to stroll around: exercise, the Doc says. Gosh! how I hate
it. See you later, Tommy. Awful glad you've turned straight."

"Nothing like it, Jim. I never thought I could run across you like this
and feel safe."

"Shuh! I wouldn't bother you none."

But despite outward appearances, Tommy Braden was uneasy. It wasn't
that he was in any way connected with Jim's visit to this particular
resort but rather that Jim's proximity was unhealthy for any gentleman
who was upon transgression bent.

Certainly there was no safety in continued procrastination. He had the
Morses just about where he wanted them and he figured that the best
thing he could do was to sell them the pearls and make his get-away. He
knew there'd be no particular trouble----

There wasn't. They dined with him that night, only Tommy being aware
of the hulking lonely figure which munched by itself in a secluded
corner of the dining room. Edgar Morse was radiant: he was exuberant
over his record-breaking golf score and as the dinner progressed he
went over for the dozenth time every shot from the first tee to the
eighteenth cup. Tommy warmed up considerably. He even unbent so far as
to say that Edgar was the first genuinely congenial person he had met
in years. He hoped that their acquaintanceship might not perish when
they parted, and--Oh! yes, he was leaving in a few days. He wished that
there was something he might do to indicate to Mr. and Mrs. Morse the
depth of his appreciation for the pleasure their society had afforded.

He correctly interpreted the eager glance which passed between
husband and wife. "There is," burst out Edgar, then bit his lip in
embarrassment: "Er--a--that is, I was just thinking--I'm kind of crazy,
I guess, and----"

"What is it, Morse? Anything in my power.... You see, I have few real
friends. I am more or less well fixed in a financial way, and in such a
position one becomes distrustful of persons who protest friendship....
Tell me what you were thinking."

"I can't--really. 'Tisn't possible."

"Indeed it is."

"No. Can't."

Tommy beamed upon Ella Morse. "What is it, Mrs. Morse? Certainly we are
sufficiently intimate to permit frankness."

She flushed. "Not to that extent."

"Pshaw! If there's any favor--"

"Well, it's this," exploded Morse. "If you wouldn't get sore--that is,
if you understood--but of course I can't ask you because they mean more
to you than just what they mean and--that is, it isn't like you just
had them, and--Oh! damn it! I've got myself all balled up!"

Tommy frowned slightly. "I judge you have reference to my pearls?"

"No! No! Certainly not. That is, I didn't go to pull a bone, and--"

Mrs. Morse leaned across the table. "Yes, Mr. Braden, he does mean your
pearls. He's embarrassed because we both realize that it is utterly out
of the question to even suggest that you part with them, and----"

Tommy lay back in his chair. He had an infectious laugh and he now
injected the full radiance of a pleasing personality in the laughter
and good-humored glance he bestowed upon them. "So that's it, eh? Well,
well, well! You folks certainly are funny. What in the world should
cause you embarrassment about wanting to buy my pearls? Of course you
want to own them. I'd be rather hurt if they didn't impress you with a
desire for ownership. Why man! man! I'm complimented."

Morse was beaming. "Dog-gone if you're not the finest fellow I ever
met. You see, pearls like those are something that can't be bought from
a jeweler ... and we both love 'em. We're not strong for diamonds and
platinum and stuff like that. Pearls--they're classy and rich--and all
such as that. And of course from the first minute we saw them we got to
thinking how swell it would be if Ella could own them ... that is, some
just like 'em."

"There aren't any just like them."

"Sure! We know that. Gosh! as if we didn't! Now if you were broke or
something I'd have offered to buy them--but money doesn't mean anything
to you, and--"

Tommy's face had grown serious. He spoke with a rich tremolo effect.
"You really want them that much?"

"Want them! Holy smokes! man, you don't know!"

"Very well. I hope you'll permit me to present them to Mrs. Morse."

For a moment there was silence. Morse and his wife stared aghast at
this man who offered as a gift a priceless rope of matched pearls.

"Give 'em----"

"Mr. Braden! I couldn't!"

"Certainly you could, Mrs. Morse. You and your husband have afforded
me an extremely delightful vacation. It would be a pleasure to present
those pearls to you. After all, their intrinsic worth is not to be
measured against friendship."

They were dumbfounded. And at length Edgar Morse started to argue. He
was overwhelmed by his friend's generosity, but of course it was out
of the question for him to accept such a gift. On the other hand if
his friend was willing to part with them at all, he would do both an
inestimable favor by permitting him to pay for them--any price which
Mr. Braden chose to ask; any price at all.

"I'd rather give them to you, Mr. Morse."

"Can't be done--impossible. Entirely impossible. But if you'd only let
me pay you...."

"You positively will not accept them as a gift?"

"Positively."

"I'm sorry. Very sorry. But if you put it that way, I agree to sell
them to you. You may have them for just what they cost me--seventy-five
thousand dollars."

Morse's voice trembled with emotion. "That's wonderful of you, Mr.
Braden--wonderful. And I realize that we shall remain indebted to
you beyond words. The trouble you've taken ... the love you have for
them...."

"Let's don't talk about them any more, Morse. I shall get the pearls
from the safe to-morrow and give them to you." He smiled slightly.
"And if you should change your mind during the night and be willing to
accept them as a gift, I hope you will let me know."

But they did not change their minds. Instead they talked until far into
the morning hours of this Genie ... this gentleman who, for reasons
quite his own, masqueraded under the name of Thomas Matlock Braden.

Nor did Tommy Braden immediately drop off into slumber. He donned
dressing gown and slippers and sat by an open window staring out into
the night. Tommy was exceedingly well pleased with himself. He had
operated adroitly ... certainly there was no hint of suspicion in the
minds of his victims. There was a profit of seventy thousand dollars in
the transaction, no mean addition to his bank account.

The presence of Jim Hanvey in the hotel was less disturbing now. Tommy
smiled at the prospect of some day telling Jim of the deal which had
been consummated under his very nose ... he knew Jim intimately and
realized that he would see the humor of the situation. There was
something irresistibly funny in the thought that this profit should
have been turned within a hundred feet of the one detective in the
world for whom Braden held a wholesome respect.

Tommy was up early the next morning. The nearness of his triumph begot
a shakiness of nerves which was not unnatural. Matters had moved along
like well-oiled machinery from the outset. There had been no single
hitch to beget doubt or worriment.

"Hey! Tommy!"

Braden stopped short to gaze into the expressionless countenance of Jim
Hanvey. The elephantine detective was smiling vacuously.

"'Lo Jim. Taking a beauty stroll?"

"Uh-huh. Pretty country around here, ain't it?"

"Beautiful."

"Walkin' my way, Tommy?"

Braden's eyes narrowed. He wasn't, but--"Yes," he said and they moved
off together; Braden tall and slender and handsome, Hanvey short and
thickset and shapeless; a human pudding in a serge sack. It was the
detective who spoke first and his tone was mildly reproving.

"Thought you told me you wasn't up to nothing around here, Tommy."

"I'm not." With simulated indignation.

"Then how does it happen that everybody in the hotel thinks you are
Jared Mallory?"

Braden threw back his head and gave an excellent imitation of carefree
laughter. "That's the funniest thing that's ever happened to me, Jim.
You know I don't look unlike Mallory----"

"No-o, you don't. But on the other hand you and him ain't no twins."

"Exactly. But the first or second day I was here somebody started the
rumor that I was Mallory and there wasn't any stopping the thing."

"You ain't been trying very hard to, have you?"

"No. Frankly. It amused me to be mistaken for him."

"No--er--reason?"

"Certainly not, Jim. No one has told you that I ever admitted being
Mallory, have they?"

"No-o. They haven't--that's right, Tommy."

"Well, then----" virtuously. "What more could you ask? I'm registered
as Thomas Matlock Braden and you know that is my true name. To folks
who have quizzed me on this Mallory stuff I've insisted that Braden is
my name. My baggage is marked with the initials T. M. B. which couldn't
possibly be twisted to stand for Jared Mallory. It certainly isn't my
fault, Jim, if a lot of fool people choose to believe I'm someone I'm
not, is it?"

"No. I reckon it ain't, Tommy. Of course you can't blame me for
thinking it funny--when I heard folks saying that you was Mallory. It
looked kind of queer."

Tommy dropped an affectionate hand on Jim's shoulder. "You can't help
being suspicious of everybody, can you, Jim? Why, dog-gone your time,
I've been running straight for so long it's a habit. That's why I
didn't even use an alias down here. Goodness knows a fellow can't come
any cleaner than to drop a dozen other names and use his own, can he?"

Jim nodded heavily and blinked with interminable slowness. "I feel
a heap relieved, Tommy. I sure would hate to see you try to pull
something--and I'm glad we had this little talky-talk. Hope you ain't
sore at me for thinking maybe there was something queer."

"Not at all, Jim; not in the least. Wouldn't have been natural if you
hadn't."

Braden moved away, his last impression of Jim Hanvey was of an
abnormally heavy man staring at him through glassy eyes. Against the
background of rusty serge he saw a set of fat fingers toying idly with
a gleaming gold toothpick.... "Poor Jim. He's a hound once they give
him the scent but he is so anxious to believe that every crook is
honest...."

In his room again, Braden telephoned the Morses. Edgar Morse answered
and made an appointment for three o'clock that afternoon. The pearls
were mentioned: Tommy repeated his offer to present them to his friend.
Morse was grateful, but yet found it impossible to accept so valuable
a gift. He assured Braden once more that there would be no less an
obligation despite the payment of a sizeable sum of money. Tommy was
relieved.

The morning dragged endlessly. Braden took his driver, midiron and a
dozen balls and went to the practice tee where for an hour he slashed
out clean, straight shots averaging more than two hundred yards in
length. Golfer though he was, he experienced no thrill from the direct,
cleaving flight of the balls: he was sufficiently a golfer to know
that if his mind were not elsewhere the golfing results would be less
satisfactory.

His lunch was tasteless. His eye quested through the huge dining
room for a glimpse of Edgar Morse and his wife. They were nowhere to
be seen. He knew that they were either lunching in the grill or out
driving. The hands of his watch progressed with exasperating slowness.
He feared that something might go wrong at the eleventh hour ...
occasionally he touched the leather case in the inside pocket of his
coat....

But he did not permit his impatience to cause a tactical blunder. It
was fully ten minutes past the hour of his appointment when he rapped
upon the door of the Morse's suite. Edgar answered in person. The eyes
of the little man were a-gleam with eagerness. One glance at Morse and
Mrs. Morse convinced Tommy that all was well. They were effusive;
couldn't thank him enough for his generous offer of the previous
evening and they hoped that he hadn't changed his mind--and that he
wouldn't later regret having sold the pearls.

A paean of triumph sang in Braden's heart. He extracted the pearls from
his pocket and snapped the case open. Mrs. Morse gasped. He lifted the
rope of pearls and personally fastened them about her throat. She was
almost tearful with excitement.

Edgar Morse produced a pocket check book. "And now if you will permit
me, Mr. Braden--I--er--believe seventy-five thousand is the amount you
mentioned."

Tommy nodded. "Yes. That is exactly what they cost me."

Edgar Morse held his pen poised. Rich color flooded his cheeks. He
hemmed and hawed for a moment and then--

"I hope you'll pardon me, sir--but how shall I make this check out?"

Tommy frowned. "What's that?"

"How shall I make it out--that is, er--to whose order?"

"I'm afraid I don't understand."

"Well, I mean--you know there's the idea around the hotel--that is,
about Jared Mallory, and--"

Tommy's voice was crisp. "Just make the check out to Thomas M. Braden."

Morse nodded and wrote swiftly. He extended to Tommy a check for
seventy-five thousand dollars payable to Thomas M. Braden and drawn
upon the Loop National Bank of Chicago. "I didn't mean to give any
offense, Braden. Of course you understand what I thought--that is,
other folks were saying----"

"Quite all right, Morse; that's perfectly all right. I have really been
exceedingly annoyed by this silly idea that Braden is not my name." He
folded the check and slipped it casually in his pocket. "By the way,
are we golfing in the morning? I was hitting them mighty cleanly in
practice to-day."

Alone in his room again Tommy inspected the check. Veteran though he
was, his heart was pounding. He had played cunningly for big stakes
and had won a well-deserved victory. There remained nothing for him to
do but pack up and get away; then to convert Morse's check into cash
and disappear. He decided upon a European trip; Paris had not known
him for several years and he longed for the sensuous pleasures of the
Boulevards.... He ripped open the drawers of his dresser and the doors
of his chifforobe: the task of packing promised to make up in speed
what it may have lacked in neatness.

Of course he knew that he must manage his going away carefully. Morse
must not know that he was hastening his departure ... he'd carry one
suitcase and send back for the trunks the next day, or else eliminate
them from his scheme of things. The important task was to place a
maximum of distance between himself and his victims in a minimum of
time. He worked feverishly at his packing, pausing occasionally to
glance at the check which had recently been handed him. He was a trifle
sorry for the Morses, but, he figured that they could well afford to
lose the money ... nor would it prove a loss unless by some mischance
the pearls should be recognized and there seemed little likelihood
of that. Certainly the Morses did not move on a social plane where
they were likely to meet persons familiar with the Vanduyn pearls.
They might, of course, boast that they had purchased the pearls from
Jared Mallory and news of this might reach that gentleman which, in
all probability, would start something. But, in so far as Tommy could
figure, no one was suffering through the transaction. What injury had
been inflicted upon the Vanduyns had been done long ago.

It was a pleasing philosophy and Tommy Braden felt quite virtuous. He
scarcely heard the light rap on the door. Only when the rapping became
insistent did he open.

Jim Hanvey waddled into the room. He wore a suit which he fancied was a
tweed. It hung loosely about his ungainly figure. The golden toothpick
was very much in evidence. Jim blinked slowly--"Gosh! Tommy, you ain't
going away, are you?"

Mr. Braden was flustered. He had a premonition of disaster. If only he
could hold Jim off for a brief span of time.... "Just running up to
Chicago for a few days, Jim. Coming right back. Merely carrying one
bag."

"Awful swell diggings, Tommy. How much do they sting you for this soot?"

"Plenty, Jim, plenty. Say, how about trotting up to Chi with me for a
day or so?"

"Naw! Can't stir, Son. I've got to stick around here another day or so
if it kills me. How long you planning to be gone?"

"Oh! two or three days at the most."

"No special business or nothing like that, is there, Tommy?"

Tommy flushed. He had a disturbing presentiment that there was a menace
cloaked beneath Jim's words. "Nothing wrong, if that's what you mean,
Jim."

"Good boy. It wouldn't be wise for a guy that's as well fixed as you to
take another flyer. Of course I know there's plenty of temptation and
all that--but the game ain't worth the electric flashlight, Son--not by
a durn sight."

Braden was ill-at-ease. "Wish you'd come along with me, Jim. I hate to
travel alone."

"Sorry, Tommy."

"You'll be here when I get back, won't you?"

Jim shook his head ponderously. "Nope. Don't reckon I will. Got to hike
back to N'Yawk and turn in a report. I've been right lucky recently,
Son; right lucky."

Braden was relieved. "Landed your man?"

"No-o. Not exactly. I wasn't particularly interested in that. It was an
insurance company that sent me down here and all they wanted was the
stuff. Interesting case, Tommy; awful interesting."

"I'll wager it was." He crammed two suits of pajamas in the travelling
bag.

"You know," Jim's voice was easily conversational, "we'd almost given
up hope of ever getting them Vanduyn pearls back."

Tommy Braden sat down very suddenly. "The--the what?"

"The Vanduyn pearls. Remember the case? Mickey Donley pulled it."

Braden leaned forward. "I don't quite make you, Jim. Do you mean to
tell me that you've recovered the Vanduyn pearls?"

"Surest thing you know. We knew Mickey couldn't get rid of 'em so we
watched the boys he was calling on. Trailed 'em that away, see? And the
poor sucker that bought 'em off Mickey found a goat and sold 'em--and I
got' em that way. I'm right lucky about things like that."

Mr. Thomas Matlock Braden was dazed. He knew that Jim Hanvey was
speaking the truth. And yet--He gave ear to the even monotone of the
detective.

"And say, Tommy; next time we meet I'll take you on in a golf match.
I'm getting my first lesson this afternoon. I run across a swell feller
last night. Guy named Morse: Edgar H. Morse. Know him?"

Tommy stared. He moistened dry lips with his tongue. "Go ahead, Jim."

"Well, Eddie Morse is taking me out on the links this afternoon. He
says it ain't so hard if a guy is willing to practice for fifteen or
twenty years. Think of me swinging a golf club. I'll feel like a sap.
But anyway I like this bird Morse. Feel like I and he was buddies even
though I never met him until late last night." Jim blinked slowly as
he toyed with the gold toothpick which rested against his vest. "He's
interested in joolry, too, Tommy. Me and him had a long talk about
pearls and things. He knew all about the Vanduyn robbery; remembered
the whole thing the minute I reminded him of it. Uh-huh, me and Eddie
Morse got along fine together."

Tommy Braden sought to readjust his battered scheme of things. Above
everything, he was a game loser. A thin, twisted smile appeared on his
lips.

"I'm a fool, Jim."

"How so, Son?"

"For thinking that you are the idiot you appear to be."

"Gosh! I couldn't be that, could I?"

"Hardly. I take it, Jim, that you knew the person to whom Mickey Donley
sold the Vanduyn pearls. You located him at this place and followed him
here. You discovered that there was considerable mystery about him and
also that Edgar Morse was his only intimate acquaintance. You presumed,
of course, that Morse was the goat--and so you went straight to that
gentleman and warned him against buying any pearls which might be
offered. Is that correct?"

Jim grinned in pleased surprise. "Golly! Son, you're clever. How'd you
know all that?"

"Just guessing, Jim." He rose heavily. "I'd better travel along, I
suppose. I'm mighty glad you're not going to nab the poor fish who
tried to pull the deal. You're a white man, Jim Hanvey."

"Shuh! We don't care nothing for that feller. It was just a bit of a
business deal with him. Hmm! So you're running up to Chicago, eh?"

"Yes." And then--"Why?"

"Oh! nothin' special. Except that if you should happen to be thinking
of cashing a check which somebody might have given you on--well, say
the Loop National Bank; I think you'd better change your mind. You see,
the feller which gave you that check happens to be a friend of mine
and just to avoid embarrassment I suggested to him last night that he
should make out the check on a bank where he hasn't got any money. And
he kind of seemed to think it was a good idea."

Tommy Braden had the grace to laugh. He clasped Jim Hanvey's hand--

"Thanks for the tip, Jim. You're surely a thoughtful chap. And one of
these days we'll try some golf; what do you say?"

"We sure will, Tommy--unless it turns out that I ain't got sense enough
to learn the darn game."


                                THE END






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JIM HANVEY, DETECTIVE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG™ LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg™ License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg

Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 41 Watchung Plaza #516,
Montclair NJ 07042, USA, +1 (862) 621-9288. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


